<Doc01>
South African Social Security Agency
Customer Care Charter
Welcome to our Customer Charter
We want you, our customer, to judge us according to the standard of our service, as contained in this charter.
We will treat you with respect and offer you good service according to the principles of Batho Pele.
As part of our responsibilities, we are committed to offering you a high standard of service, accurate information, advice and help with all our services.
The Purpose of the Charter
This charter informs you about the standard of service you can expect from the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA).
SASSA is an extension of a governmental arm of services, which controls the delivery of social grants to South African citizens.
We are committed 
to conducting affordable social security services of a high standard using the best procedures.
What can you expect from us?
To promote and protect human dignity, confidentiality, justice, order, transparency and equitability.
Across the South African Security Agency, we will:
offer you information and advice with regard to all the grants for which you may apply;
refer you to other agencies that can listen to your needs;
help you to fill out forms and apply for a grant;
keep the information you give us confidential;
always apply the principles of the South African Constitution, service delivery laws and the Code of Conduct with regard to service delivery;
serve you in the language of your choice;
work along with the people we serve and all our stakeholders; and
always try to improve our service delivery to satisfy your expectations.
To contact us
If you contact us personally, by phone, by mail or by email, the following will happen:
A representative from customer services, whom you will work with, will introduce him/herself to you.
Personal complaints by phone will be solved immediately.
If we are unable to solve your complaints immediately, we will provide reasons and inform the customer when to expect a response.
We will give you a reference number to allow you to follow up on your complaint. 
We will acknowledge receipt of any communication you send and we will process your complaint within 7 working days.
If we are unable to answer you within 7 working days, we will explain why and when you can expect an answer.
We will try to solve your complaint within 21 days.
If you phone us, our intention is to answer you as quickly as possible using an official language of your choice. 
We will communicate with you in writing with regard to every decision about your grant.
At the SASSA offices
If you arrive at any one of our offices, our staff will assist you quickly.
All our offices are open from 08h00 to 16h30, Monday to Thursday, and from 08h00 to 16h00 on Friday.
At our offices and pay points, you will have access to the following:
Confidentiality
Relaxed waiting areas
Rest rooms
Healthcare if we have been informed about that need beforehand
We will come to you if you are unable to come to us due to health reasons.
You can phone us and we will arrange a home visit.
Processing your social grant application
We will start to deal with your application on the same day we receive it.
We have to confirm that you have the legal right to receive a grant.
We are passionate about dealing with your claim and to pay your grant within 90 days.
We will inform you of your right to appeal should there be a rejection, delay or cancellation.
Making decisions
If we make a decision about your grant application, and you think that it is not accurate, or you need more information about the decision, you can do the following:
Ask us to explain the decision in full and we will grant your request.
Appeal the decision within only 30 days of the date of the letter of the decision.
Access your information to find any information that you may need.
Your responsibility will be
to provide us with:
Your accurate residential and postal address.
Changes in your life like your income, address, medical conditions, etc.
Information or explanations that are truthful and accurate.
You will need to respond quickly to all our letters, including a request to provide an outline of other information required from you.
Are you unhappy with our services?
If you are not happy due to:
us taking too long to consider your application for a grant and/or not receiving your money on time;
the conduct of our officer being undesirable;
a mistake being made by a member of our staff on your application or if he or she gave you the wrong advice; or
any intentional or unintentional mistake on our part,
let us know about it and we will rectify any mistake we have made.
If you want to lodge a complaint, please write to us or call us and ask to be transferred to the customer care unit.
We will discuss our services with you.
We are interested in your opinion about our services.
We will use the information you give us to improve our services.
Please send us feedback in any of the following ways:
Call our agency's toll-free number from a series of numbers at 0800 601 011.
Fill out a customer comment card that can be accessed at our offices and at our pay points.
Visit our website www.sassa.gov.za.
Visit any of our contact points
(our district, local and service pay points).
Hand in a complaint in writing at one of our offices.
Questions or comments about the charter
For more information about this charter, call one of our offices.
You can have the charter in Braille, audio tape and CD, if that is what you request.
The charter will be rolled out on 01/04/2007 and will be reviewed every year to accommodate your comments.
<Doc02>
Statistics SA – News
Inside Statistics: The need for statistics will increase as democracy becomes rooted in society.
This article was first published in the Business Report on 05 August 2004.
In the past week, I attended a regional convention of the board of advisers of the East African Statistical Training Centre in Tanzania, where I had the opportunity to attend the 39th annual graduation ceremony of this centre, in which five staff members of Statistics SA participated.
The agency is passionate about training Stats SA employees.
Soon after being appointed as a general statistician at Stats SA, together with the Council of Statistics, I launched an urgent search for agencies that offer training for the interpretation of official data.
Two agencies were identified: a training institution in Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, as well as the Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics in Uganda.
The training institute was established in 1965 by the UN Economic Commission for Africa, East African Common Services Organisation, as well the UN Development Programme.
In 1997, the Tanzanian government was already in control of the institute, and increased the number of African countries it was serving to 13.
The institute in Uganda was established in 1969 within the legal framework of the University of Makerere. 
Its aim was to offer training of a high standard for professionals in statistics and applied economics.
In the past three years, Stats SA has been sending its employees to these institutions.
The first group graduated last year.
Since they came back, they have shown great improvement in their work and some of them are currently in managerial positions.
However, Stats SA is facing new challenges.
The lack of statistical information to make decisions in three government departments has greatly increased.
In particular, a need for people trained in collecting and using statistical information in the municipalities is becoming critical. 
To satisfy this need, we will have to train people at the rate of at least 2 000 per annum.
The training institute in Tanzania, together with the Ugandan Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics, cannot cope with this high demand.
When he was opening the SA Statistical Association conference in the past year, the Minister of Finance, Trevor Manuel, challenged South African universities to deal with the existing lack of statistical skills to help government make informed decisions based on statistically accurate information.
Stats SA has commenced discussions with universities with the aim of starting such training.
However, there is currently no university in South Africa that offers courses in official statistics.
Stats SA is planning to establish a training institute of statistics in the near future, which will offer training in official statistics to both staff within the institute and to officials in other departments.
The implementation of a national system of statistics will result in a need to establish statistics units in different government departments will cause a great need for people who are skilled in statistics.
However, the development of capacity in statistics is linked to more than just the need for accurate information in government.
Statistics is at the heart of a democracy.
HG Wells, in the beginning of the 20th century, gave an opinion that, in future, statistics will be important to citizens, just like reading and writing skills.
Public statistics is a recent cultural achievement, which came about with the dawn of democracy.
In Africa, where democracy is still new, we will see a marked increase in requests for public statistics as democracy gets rooted in society.
Statisticians are the custodians of democratic principles, of transparency of measurement and access, and therefore of accountability.
That is what makes this campaign so important: increasing statistical capacity, and establishing an institute that is required for a huge and rapid expansion in teaching the interpretation of official data.
Pali Lehlola, a general statistician and Head of Stats SA.
For more information about Stats SA and what it does, visit www.statssa.gov.za or call (012) 310-8600.
<Doc03>
16 days of Activism: Did you know?
Since 1994, the government has established a law to correct the wrongs that affect women and children.
The Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act of 2000 was promulgated to ensure the enjoyment of constitutional rights by all. 
The law ensures that women enjoy equal rights and freedom in addressing the wrongs of the past.
The Employment Equity Act of 1988 ensures that employment discrimination, work and income in the labour market, which came through apartheid, are ended.
It promotes the equal representation of women and other people who were historically disadvantaged in all public and private institutions.
The Maintenance Act of 1998 guarantees the rights of a child to a standard of living that is adequate for physical, mental, spiritual and social development.
The Act ensures that the child's maintenance support comes from the parents or other persons who are financially responsible for the child.
The Domestic Violence Act of 1998 was promulgated to provide more protection to survivors of violence from domestic abuse.
Women who experience domestic violence now have a legal recourse to ensure their protection.
The Children's Act of 2005 and the Children's Act of 2007, as amended, have, among others, been promulgated to protect a child from maltreatment, neglect, degradation or abuse.
The government has implemented and supported interventions that protect women's and children's human dignity.
The Charter for Children's Rights is currently under review and is being updated to include challenges that arise, such as using children as an object of pornographic material and exposure to it.
The government has reacted to the challenge of children being forced into marriage to adults under the pretext of "Ukuthwala".
The government is committed to ensuring that traditional and other activities and in line with the Constitution and relevant laws.
The re-establishment of some special police units are in progress which deal with domestic and sexual offences and other crimes against women and children.
Establishing special units will promote the necessary skills to enhance management and success in prosecuting crimes against women and children.
Right now there are 17 Thuthuzela Care Centres established right across the country in communities that experience a high rate of sexual violence.
These centres offer health and welfare services and initiate the effective reporting and prosecution of offences in a dignified and caring environment under qualified professionals.
Criminal Asset Recovery Funds were put to use for the funding of 19 victim empowerment projects.
The Department of Services for Victims of Violence and Crime with services provided by more than 1 500 government and civil society organisations in all provinces was established.
The Department empowers people by giving them access to services that are available in their area.
Victim-friendly facilities have been established in police stations with a high rate of contact crime.
Courts that only deal with sexual offences have been established.
The Domestic Violence Act provided for shelters to be established.
There are currently 96 shelters in South Africa, compared to 39 in 2001.
The Rights of Victims’ Charter is becoming a reality for victims of crime who collaborate with the criminal justice system.
The charter includes Minimum Standards of Services to Victims of Crime, which explains the legal framework for victims to emphasise their rights and the services to be expected from the criminal justice system.
By implementing the Victims’ Charter, the number of days it takes to complete a case in the Court of Sexual Offences has dropped from 285 to 142.
The Charter is also required in the Government of South Africa to meet its international obligation in line with the United Nations (UN) Declaration of the Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power.
There is international cooperation to deal with the challenges of violence against women and children.
South Africa has submitted a report to the UN committee of CEDAW with regard to progress it has made in implementing the of the Convention on the Elimination of discrimination against women. 
South Africa hosted a Southern African Development Community (SADC) Ministerial Meeting (October 09) to complete a 10-year regional strategic plan with regard to the trafficking in persons, especially women and children.
The SADC Protocol with regard to Gender and Development says that, by 2015, SADC member states will have enacted legislation to fight sexual harassment.
South Africa hosted a Gender Justice Regional Summit (9–10 November 2009), which brought together delegates from African countries to come and share their experiences and best practices in eliminating sexual and gender-based violence.
Do not look away, take action against abuse.
<Doc04>
Privacy Statement 
The Department of Housing is committed to protecting your privacy and developing technology that offers you a powerful and safe online experience. 
This privacy statement applies to the website of the Department of Housing and controls data collection and usage.
By using the website of the Department of Housing, you agree with the data practices as described in this statement.
Collection of personal information
The Department of Housing collects personal identifiable information, like your email address, name, residential address or work address, or telephone number.
The Department of Housing collects anonymous information about people, which is not unique to you, like postal code, age, preferences, interests and favourites.
There is also information about your computer hardware or software which is also automatically collected by the Department of Housing.
This information could include your IP address, type of search, domain names, access times, as well as forwarding website addresses.
This information is used by the Department of Housing in delivering services, maintain service quality and offer general statistics with regard to the use of the website of the Department of Housing.
Please remember that when you reveal personal identifiable information or personally sensitive information through the Department of Housing’s public message platforms, this information may be collected and used by others.
Note: The Department of Housing does not read any of your private online communications.
The Department of Housing encourages you to examine the privacy statements of websites you choose to access from the Department of Housing so that you can understand how these websites collect, use and share your information.
The Department of Housing will not be liable for privacy statements or other content on any website other than its own websites.
The use of your personal information
The Department of Housing collects and uses your personal information to manage the Website of the Department of Housing and to provide the services you have requested.
The Department of Housing also uses your personal identifiable information to inform you about other products or accessible services offered by the Department of Housing and its affiliates.
The Department of Housing can also contact you through a survey to research your opinion of current services or of potential new services that may be provided.
The Department of Housing does not sell, rent or lease out a list of its customers to third parties.
The Department of Housing may contact you from time to time on behalf of external business partners with regard to a certain offering that may be of interest to you.
In that case, your unique, personal identifiable information (email address, name, address, telephone number) will not be forwarded to the third party.
In addition to that, the Department of Housing may share information with loyal partners to help it examine statistics, send you an email or surface mail, provide customer support or arrange for deliveries.
All such third parties are allowed to use your personal information, except to provide these services to the Department of Housing, and they are asked to maintain the confidentiality of your information.
The Department of Housing does not use or reveal sensitive personal information, such as race, religion or political affiliation, without explicit permission. 
The Department of Housing follows the websites and pages visited by its customers within the Department of Housing to determine which of the services of the Department of Housing are most popular.
This information is used to provide content and adverts relevant to customers' needs within the Department of Housing to customers whose reaction proved that they are interested in a certain subject.
The websites of the Department of Housing will reveal your personal information without first notifying you, if the law requires them to do so, or if they do so in good faith that such action is important to: (a) conform to the provisions of the law or to abide with legal processes served on the Department of Housing or the site; (b) protect and defend the rights or property of the Department of Housing; and, (c) act under urgent circumstances to protect the personal safety of users of the Department of Housing.
The use of cookies
The websites of the Department of Housing use "cookies" to help users customise their online experience.
A cookie is a text file put on your hard disc by a web server.
Cookies will not be used to manage a program or to introduce viruses to your computer. 
These cookies are given to you in a unique way, and they can only be read by the web server in the domain that released the cookie.
One of the main objectives of cookies is to provide convenience and save time.
The objective of a cookie is to tell the web server that you have returned to a certain page.
For example, if you customise pages of the Department of Housing, or register with the Department of Housing’s site or services, a cookie helps the Department recall your specific information on your next visits.
This makes it easy to record your personal information, like a billing address, shipping address, etc.
If you return to the same Department of Housing website, the information you provided in the past can be retrieved, so you can easily use features of the Department that you customised.
You can accept or reject the cookies.
Most of the browsers on the web receive cookies automatically, but you can modify your browser to reject cookies if you so desire.
If you choose to reject cookies, you will not experience in full the interactive features of the Department of Housing’s services or websites you visit.
Protection of personal information 
The Department of Housing protects your personal information against unauthorised access, use or disclosure.
The Department of Housing protects your personal identifiable information, which you provide, in its computer servers in a controlled way, in a secure environment, protected from unauthorised access, use or disclosure. 
When personal information (like a credit card number) is forwarded to other websites, it has been protected by means of an encryption like the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol. 
Changes to this statement
The Department of Housing will, from time to time, renew this privacy statement to show the feedback of the company and the customer.
The Department of Housing encourages you to regularly examine this statement for information on how the Department of Housing protects your personal information.
Contact details
The Department of Housing will be happy to receive your comments with regard to this privacy statement.
If you believe that the Department of Housing has not adhered to this statement, please contact the Department of Housing at webmaster@kznhousing.gov.za.
We will make use of commercially reasonable efforts to promptly determine and remedy the problem.
<Doc05>
The speech by the Premier, Ebrahim Rasool, at the celebratory function of matriculates
We are gathered here today to come and congratulate our matriculates.
We say to them: “Well done! We are proud of you, the province and the country is proud of you, your parents are proud of you, and more importantly, you must be proud of yourselves.”
The reason we express pride at a moment like this is to recognise that a moment of achievement has been realised after a longer time of difficulty and sacrifice, which today represents a moment of coming out of circumstances that can best be described as complex.
Matric is complex.
In the past ten years we had to change the whole educational system from its apartheid standpoint.
We have, to a greater degree, succeeded in terms of greater integration, a single syllabus and examination, greater numbers of those who write and pass matric, and being aware that education not only serves the needs of an individual, but that the entire economy depends on the skills provided by the education system.
Matric is really complex.
Our leaders, who are gathered here at Lewenhof, are no doubt the best: those who have achieved the best and those who deserve the awards that this province can confer.
 We also remember the 71% of the nation, students of more than 20 years, who did not complete their secondary education; half of the 80 000 who started Grade 1 with you 12 years ago, and who did not write exams in 2004 because of dropouts. But of the many who did write, some have matric certificates that cannot be used to take part in the economy or in higher education due to the choice of subjects they made.
What complicates matric even more is that you are our role models.
The nation judges the future by what you do.
It places its hopes in your wellbeing.
It places its future hopes on our investing in the educational system, which brings about this celebration.
Yes, the major part of the provincial budgets and those of the national government goes into education.
In this one year only, by trying to preserve the employment of 2 000 teachers, we took money from other provincial activities and put it into education.
We need to strengthen our investments in poor schools so that, in increasing numbers, equality of education is felt through having great faith about the future of every school in the townships.
What is more important, Minister Dugmore and Superintendent-General Swartz, is that we have one shot at producing a Human Resources Strategy to justify all of this investment.
We need to produce matriculates who are firm in values, achieve outstanding results, are relevant to the economy, faithful to society and of benefit to people in general. 
That is what we have come to celebrate today.
You represent these hopes as we build our Home for All.
We celebrate your achievements because you worked hard and made sacrifices, your parents sacrificed a lot to keep you in school, and society also sacrificed a lot to invest in your future.
Many doubt celebrating matric achievements due to their complications and also due to the fact that it may still be harbouring remnants from the apartheid system.
You are the only ones who can overcome this by being actively and consciously being devoted to building A Home for All, which is non-racial and equal.
This must be reflected by all the choices you make from now on forward.
Up to now you had to choose how hard you would work.
Your matric certificate enables and compels you to decide what kind of person you want to be and what kind of life you want to live.
Congratulations and good luck.
<Doc06>
The mission of the 2010 Government Communication Project Management is to:
facilitate the achievement of the strategic communication objectives for the FIFA World Cup in Africa;
use this extraordinary opportunity to express and build unity and happiness between South Africans;
motivate our young people;
advertise our country in the world;
create a climate of communication that helps us to use this opportunity to speed up growth and expand opportunities; and
build African unity.
This will be achieved through:
providing leadership and a system of government communication regarding the 2010 World Cup;
building the national cooperation of private and public communicators across disciplines, and promoting alliances with communicators in the continent and the diaspora, so that both the country and the continent can use this lifetime opportunity of communication; and 
performing key government communication projects for the 2010 Soccer World Cup.
<Doc07>
The National Road Traffic Laws have been updated to improve safety on our roads.
POLOKWANE: The National Road Traffic Laws have been updated.
It is called the seventeenth update and was implemented after it was published.
The Department of Roads and Transport is informing vehicle drivers about the following updates:
New vehicles that will be registered after 01 August 2010 must have number plates securely held in place with screws or something similar.
If it is not possible to put plates directly on a car, they must be slipped into a bracket, which has a SANS 973 accreditation.
This change will decrease crime and traffic offences committed by car owners who remove number plates so that they can easily cover their tracks.
It will not be easy to remove number plates and put them back again after a crime has been committed because this will entail extra costs.
A number plate is made of aluminum, which makes it difficult for it to be burned beyond recognition during an accident.
From January 2011, someone who has obtained a code C, C1, EC or EC1 driver’s license will not be allowed to drive a car that needs a code B or EB license (in older terms, a person with a code 10, 11, 13 or 14 license will not be allowed to drive a car that needs a code 8 license).
This will not apply to new license holders.
A great number of learner drivers apply for a heavy duty vehicle license instead of a light motor vehicle license to avoid parallel parking.
The truth is that soon after obtaining a license for a heavy duty vehicle, they drive light motor vehicles with which they are not familiar and end up causing accidents.
It is also hoped that all drivers who have obtained a license for a heavy duty vehicle will have a professional driving permit, but statistics points otherwise.
This is an indication that applicants need licenses to drive light motor vehicles, not heavy duty vehicles. 
Directional stability control devices of minibuses and average-sized buses have been produced as a way of obtaining a certification that is part of a test to determine if the car is roadworthy.
They are applied to minibuses and average-sized buses, but not to cars that have just been manufactured.
The registered owner of vehicle must submit a completed DSCD form at the testing station.
A Directional Stability Control Device is an instrument that prevents the tyre from coming out of the rim should a tyre burst while the car is in motion.
The updating of Regulation 332 has been published and provides a timetable of air pressure tests as evidence to be used to put together examples of air pressure; the certificate, which is released by the car manufacturer or by the dealer, can be used as evidence during cases only if it can be shown.
The change mostly deals with the point raised with regard to the amendment of the legality of breathalysers according to section 65(7) of the National Road Traffic Act of 1996, and complies with SABS 1793 and can be used to confirm the amount of alcohol in a driver’s body. 
The following are the prescribed tools:
"This is very relevant during the festive season because it strengthens our effort in the fight against driving under the influence of alcohol on our routes," says the MEC of Road and Transport, Pinky Kekana.
<Doc08>
Prenatal Health Services 
Pregnant girls and women are referred for maternity services to midwife obstetric units (MOUs) in cities, and to satellite or immobile clinics in rural areas.
The MOUs are maternity units that are managed by midwives in the community for primary healthcare patients. 
It is advisable for a pregnant woman to book her first appointment at the clinic before 20 weeks or as soon as possible thereafter.
The mother will be given her first full examination and counselling on her first antenatal visit, which is also known as booking the visit.
The pregnancy is monitored during regular follow-up visits.
The mother's health is also monitored.
She will be weighed, her blood pressure taken and her urine tested.
If there are no problems, she must come back for her initial follow-up visit after two weeks for the test results taken during the first antenatal visit.
After this, she must come to the clinic every six weeks until she reaches 28 weeks, thereafter every two weeks until she is in her 34th week (the number of visits can vary from visit to visit, as indicated by the clinic/MOU staff).
Pregnant women are examined for any possible risks to their health and that of their unborn child.
Both teenage girls and pregnant women over 35 are regarded to be at high risk.
This means that it is likely for them to have complications when pregnant and during delivery.
Pregnant women may also be regarded to be at high risk when they have high blood pressure, a history of genetic conditions, having given birth multiple times and having had surgery in the past, such as a caesarean section. 
Women diagnosed as being at high risk are referred to outpatient antenatal clinics at secondary- or tertiary-level hospitals, where more investigations and screening would be performed.
Women with a high-risk pregnancy are advised to visit outpatient antenatal clinics as often as possible.
If you are a first-time visitor to a healthcare facility, you will be asked to fill out a form and a file will be opened for you.
Bring along your ID book, any medication that you may be taking, and your clinic or hospital card if you registered at that institute.
Low-risk pregnancies are managed at MOUs (maternity units of basic care managed by midwives) in cities, or satellite and immobile clinics in rural areas.
High-risk pregnancies are managed at outpatient clinics in urban and rural regional hospitals and at hospitals at tertiary institutions.
<Doc09>
An Integrated Nutrition Programme
The aim of an integrated nutrition programme (INP) is to improve the condition of nutrition for all people who live in the Western Cape Province.
There are different aspects to this programme.
What is malnutrition? 
Malnutrition is a serious problem in South Africa and is a leading cause of childhood illness and death.
It is estimated that about 30% of children in South Africa are not fed enough nutritious foods in the early years of their lives.
The leading cause of malnutrition is inadequate food intake, diseases, as well as psychological stress/trauma.
Poverty and lack of resources are basic facts that bring about malnutrition.
An INP is trying to face up to this silent epidemic in different ways.
Children's supplements
At primary healthcare level, children who are examined and diagnosed as undernourished (including children and adults who are HIV-positive and have tuberculosis) will be given food supplements, including fortified maize meal and a high-energy drink.
Supplements are given to people who have been identified according to certain criteria.
Healthcare workers also offer counselling, information and education about healthy ways of eating and preparing food.
Dentists also offer special services to the community.
Breastfeeding
To help fight malnutrition in the early childhood years, healthcare workers encourage women to breastfeed their babies exclusively for about six months, and thereafter, to continue to breastfeed their babies and to supplement their feed with other relevant foods until the child is two years old.
Other choices of feeding the baby are reviewed with women who have an HIV infection.
The Vredendal Hospital and Maternity Section at Groote Schuur are baby-friendly hospitals according to the Baby Friendly Hospitals Initiative.
Care and growth assessment
All children are regularly weighed as part of a care and assessment programme, which is conclusive evidence that shows whether the child is growing.
The body weight is written in a Road to Health card.
Factors that cause loss of weight are dealt with, these include infectious diseases, lack of food at home and child neglect. 
Infectious diseases play a major role in malnutrition and are treated instead of basic care.
Diarrhoea is closely linked to poor environmental hygiene (sanitation and water supply) and the under- or poor nutrition of an infant, which renders him/her more vulnerable to serious and prolonged diarrhoea.
Poverty alleviation
Poor families are identified and are moved to government programmes of poverty alleviation.
Food safety is also assessed in families and relevant interventions and support are provided.
Vitamin supplements
The control of a lack of nutrients is an important part of this service.
Nutrients are natural substances like vitamins and minerals, which are found in small quantities in food and are important to promoting good health.
An INP provides nutritious supplements of Vitamin A to targeted children.
Children who need Vitamin A lose weight, they are not able to grow properly and they can have infections and die because of them.
Lack of Vitamin A destroys eyesight and is the leading cause of blindness in children.
Children born underweight are given Vitamin A tablets, which help as a vaccine in the body and with child developmental growth.
Babies from 6 to 11 months old are given a single dose of Vitamin A (100 000 IU) to prevent serious diseases.
Children from 12 months to five years are given a single dose of 200 000 IU when they are 12 months old, and after that, a 200 000 IU dose every six months until the child is five years old.
Other supplementary doses of Vitamin A are given to children who are seriously malnourished, or who have infectious diseases like diarrhoea, measles or HIV infection.
Deworming
Loss of weight in children can also be due to worms and this can be treated at the clinic with deworming medication.
Nutritional advice for specific conditions
Nutritional education, information and counselling are provided at all levels of care to people who are paralysed, who have high blood pressure, who are diabetic, or who have HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis.
Nutrition programme in primary schools
The Primary Schools Nutrition Programme is found at specifically identified schools located in a substandard economic area.
Right now, schemes are conducted jointly with the Department of Education.
The provincial government intends to reach 125 000 children in 847 primary schools in the province by 2004 with its school feeding scheme.
Food in the institutions
An INP also takes part in taking care of those provided with food schemes for them to be provided with enough nutrition.
Instructions
Visitors who come to the clinic/secondary hospital for the first time will be asked to fill in the forms and a file will be opened for the patient.
Bring along your ID.
The letter of transfer from the clinic will be required when you visit the hospital.
Hospitals will ask for your new payslip/income (IRP5).
Bring along your hospital card if you registered at the hospital.
<Doc10>
A speech by the Deputy Minister of Public Works, Mr Ntopile Kganyago, MP, at the initial opening of the Tshwane Inner City Programme, South African Reserve Bank, Tshwane.
Other senior officials of government 
Ladies and gentlemen of the media
Distinguished guests
The decision made by Cabinet in 1997 to encourage national government departments to turn the inner city of Tshwane into their permanent home showed great vision, then and now.
The outcome is a well-organised plan of linking the revamping of our cities to government's call for urban renewal and other spatial development campaigns designed to promote urban management values that are responsive to human rights, hospitable housing, the development of the economy and social cohesion.
Today we experience the fulfilment of that vision, and we celebrate the journey we have made thus far.
Intensive discussions, which were often accompanied by equally intensive debates about the needs of and options open to government departments as far as their physical environment is concerned, did not deviate any of us from our long-standing objectives, which are to improve the physical working environment of government departments in the inner city of Tshwane.
At the same time, we need to contribute to the renewal and rejuvenation of the inner city.
Other objectives that are also important include trying to attract private sector investment, restoring the image of Tshwane as an important capital city in Africa and continuing with black economic empowerment.
The government is a big property owner and an advanced investor in the life of local government’s economy, especially in the municipalities of Johannesburg and Tshwane in Gauteng. 
Departments need offices to be able to meet their obligations of providing services to the community to fulfil their commissions.
It is common knowledge that most of the government buildings fall under the category “good to fair” instead of “exceptional” in terms of their conditions.
Renewals, renovations and maintenance will need funds and the opportunity to participate in part of the BEE project of the Inner City of Tshwane.
Each year, national government, with the Department of Public Works, uses more than two billion rand (R2 billion) to pay for rentals, as well as to cover other charges of administrative buildings, such as tax services to the community where both private institutes and local government receive a profit.
Nevertheless, these participants are the ones who are expected to lead the work of reviving the inner city of Tshwane, this could perhaps include participation of the Gauteng Provincial Government with its big investment projects conducted by the Gauteng Economic Development Agency (GEDA).
According to the Inner City of Tshwane programme, which will be known as "Re Kgabisa Tshwane" and has been given the abbreviated title of "The Better Place to Work", the focus is more on people (both government employees and the nation), since it is their place of work, this is where they are able to provide important services, and where the community can receive such services.
When we announced government's action plan for 2004, President Thabo Mbeki asked that the Department of Public Works and the Department of Public Service and Administration must lead the project of uplifting the environment in government departments and places of work for government employees.
The national government structures are the engine of providing services, and government officials are the oil that makes the engine work speedily, with skill and success.
During the time of assessing the needs of a project, many government employees who were contacted emphasised the importance of having excellent working spaces and conditions to do their work, these included places inside and outside, that is why it is important to partner with the City of Tshwane, which is responsible for most urban management aspects, such as traffic, cleanliness, safety, security and aesthetics
Allow me to take this opportunity to thank the Tshwane leadership and the authorities for their vision of accepting this project and for aligning it with the integrated renovation plans.
The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will be referred to later today between the Department of Public Works and the City of Tshwane is a confirmation that we have now found a place to work from.
It is a declaration of intent to cooperate on ideas and on projects that will benefit both parties.
Our message to you today is: "Work has started" and the next 10 years will experience an injection of eight billion rand (R8 billion) from national government and private institutes with the budget of funds, the renewal of residential letting and cooperation of the public and private sector.
According to the Administrative Programme, an Administrative Committee has been established between Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department of Public Works, National Treasury and the City of Tshwane.
Among other things, the committee will lead the programme to monitor and see to its implementation, conclude the strategy of funding support and confirm integrated implementation.
The Department has employed Mr Dumisani Dlamini as a Deputy Director-General who will be responsible for all of the programme's administration.
Thank you.
<Doc11>
Madam Speaker, the Honourable Premier, my fellow members of Cabinet, Members of the House, honourable guests, officers of the Department of Housing, the media, as well as the community at large, welcome.
These words reflect South African politics, especially in the Western Cape.
No matter how hard the dedicated and progress-loving people of this country work, there are those whose aim it is to always look down on the wonderful work done by our concerned and caring government in the short, difficult time in which it has been in office.
Comrades, most people have argued about what building houses is all about, but allow me to give you another version.
To me, housing is not only about shelter.
It is about people who are shouldering the responsibility of promoting their community and building their own future.
It is about creating desirable communities and a sustainable, loving environment.
It is about progress through unity and partnership between the private sector, the public sector and non-governmental organisations, especially members of the community. 
To me, housing can be well explained as a process that is based on democratic values, fought for by the people of this country.
Housing, in the South African context, is not just a product; it is a process that is reflected in the democratic values that people of this country have fought very hard for.
It is a process in which people are listened to, it allows people to practice their human rights by choosing the type of houses and the land on which they would like their houses to be built.
In that way, there is no way of depriving anyone of dignity in an undemocratic way like depriving them the right to choose.
Unlike during apartheid, as a social activist, people are at the centre of my housing delivery vision and strategy. 
Ladies and gentlemen, it is with pleasure this afternoon to be giving the second budget speech as Premier of Housing in the province.
I am also proud to be giving this budget speech a day before the memorial of ten years of democracy.
There is undeniable evidence that the ANC-led government has achieved a lot more in less than ten years of its democratic rule than any other country has ever done worldwide.
Sisebenzile - We have made achievements.
In firm terms, of the 1.4 million housing opportunities that the government has delivered, I am proud to report that our province has handed out 167 000 units in the past nine years, which is 11% of the national cake.
So, according to me, this is an excellent performance, which surpasses any standard.
I would also like to say that the past year has been full of challenges, which stifled the delivery of houses in the whole country, especially in the province.
These challenges were due to the introduction of new policy laws and mechanisms, such as a beneficiary contribution of R2 479 and the introduction of the National Homebuilders Registration Council Warranty Scheme on government-subsidised housing.
The aim of these steps is not to delay the provision of services, but to ensure that our people receive houses of marketable value.
We learn lessons by implementing these policies, even though they cause delays in the provision of services.
What makes matters worse is that my Department continued to work without a Director-General for nine months.
This delayed progress quite a bit.
So, I have employed the Director-General, Mr Seth Maqethuka, a child who was born and raised in Cape Town and who is experienced in local and national government, whom I would like to congratulate and welcome even though I have done so many times already.
Despite all these challenges and problems, I am happy to announce to our people that my Department managed to use R348 million, which is an allocation of 92% for housing in the Western Cape.
Some provinces did not even use 52% of our budget.
This brought about the the approval of funding for 25 000 houses.
Many poor families will have an opportunity to enjoy the fruit of democracy.
This shows a huge increase of units to 3 000 compared to last year.
For this reason, I want to support an important aspect of our municipalities within our province. 
Without your commitment to the work that you have done so well, we would not have been able to use this money.
I also want to commend the City of Cape Town for using 70% of our budget.
I do not forget my officers for a job well done and taking part in our vision to build houses for our nation.
Comrades, I will not be speaking the truth if I only speak about all that is good with regard to providing houses.
There are still some gaps in our provision of houses.
Up to now, we still have to improve on the following serious points:
Most of our houses have not yet complied with the policy change from quantity to quality housing.
We are still to change the process of housing delivery from that of providing shelters to establishing human settlements.
We need to change the participation by beneficiaries from passive to active participation.
We need to change the mind set of our people for them to view government-subsidised houses as property, not merely as a product.
<Doc12>
Sector policing works
It was a huge relief to both the mother and the 16-month-old child, James Busakwe, when he was reunited with his biological mother on 7 April 2006.
Problems started when James's mother arrived at the Klerksdorp Hospital on 6 April to visit her son and nurses became aware that the child had been given to another woman the previous day, who had said that she was the mother.
Soon after that was realised, nurses informed the police station in Kanana because the lady who had collected the child had provided an address in Kanana.
They tried to confirm the address without success.
There was no-one at that address who knew the woman from their description of her.
On the evening of 6 April, the Kanana CPF had a meeting.
The station’s acting commissioner informed the meeting about the kidnapped child and asked all to keep their eyes and ears open.
At about 23:00 on the same night, one of the residents called the police with information regarding a woman living in the community who had never been known to have been pregnant, but suddenly had a baby boy with her.
The police followed up on this information and they indeed found the woman and the child.
Hospital staff members were called and immediately identified the child and the woman who had stolen him from the hospital.
Different items of evidence, including a plastic bracelet from the hospital, were discovered inside the house of the suspect.
The woman was arrested and the unharmed child was taken back to the hospital where he was reunited with his mother the next day.
The actions taken by members of the community in discovering the child must be applauded, because it highlights the value of community policing.
The value of community policing that is implemented and correctly maintained must not be taken lightly.
Keep up the good work, Kanana CPF!
Dear Madam
I think I was fortunate enough to have passed by your police station at Mondeor where I saw the SAPS journal.
I take it that it is published once a month, and I found it to make for interesting reading.
My wife and I have started a new business and we would like to invite all your employees or some of them in your community to come and have a cup of tea with us and perhaps some biscuits.
As you know, starting a new business is not easy and it requires a lot of time and funds.
Nevertheless, we still believe that the police and other law enforcement departments are important to the South African community.
This is just something small I would like to do for you to thank you all for your sacrifices to make sure we, as a community, can continue with our daily lives. 
We are looking forward to hearing from your employees or to seeing them in uniform in our small shop to get to know one another better.
We thank you and all your other law enforcement employees in South Africa for your commitment to work hard to make South Africa safe.
Short letters with points can be faxed or emailed to The Editor.
We have the right to edit or abbreviate letters.
<Doc13>
A call to action
On 14 May 2007, one of the articles from the SAPS Journal Online (www.sapsjournalon-line.gov.za) explained how two police officers in the Vehicle Identification Section had been arrested for fraud and crime. 
According to the reports, these two, a superintendent and an inspector, had sold vehicles that had been recovered by the police after they had been stolen, and took the money for themselves.
The two suspects appeared in court on 12 June and the case was postponed until 21 August 2007. 
A day later, on 15 May 2007, a News 24 headline read as follows: “Two police officers have been arrested for armed robbery”.
At this time, a student constable and an inspector are reported to have robbed a clothing store in Marble Hall and to have stolen money, a pair of pants and a shirt.
Crime within the police service must end.
While most of us are honest and hard-working citizens, a small number of police officers have no respect for themselves, for their uniform or the Police Code of Conduct.
It is now time for us to remove the negative elements from within SAPS once and for all. 
Now you can help to remove corrupt police officers by exposing them on our crime line.
Anonymously
If you suspect that one of your colleagues is up to something illegal, or if you know someone else, be it a police officer, family member, colleague, neighbour or stranger, who is involved in or is planning to take part in a criminal activity, all you need to do is to send an SMS to 32211.
This is a new national crime number rolled out by Primedia in Sandton.
 You can send an SMS to 32211 (at a cost of only R1 an SMS) or visit www.crime-line.co.za.
Trained data capturers are waiting to relay the information to the police, who will take immediate action.
What is nice is that you will remain anonymous.
You now have the power to help fight crime without putting yourself in danger.
The Primedia campaign is not promising any comebacks.
Yusuf Abramjee, Primedia Anti-crime Project Coordinator, said: “We do not want your name or address unless you decide to give them to us and there is no need for police statements or to appear before the court.
All we need is information about criminals for the police to do something about it."
The new national campaign against crime, which is worth millions of rands, was rolled out by Primedia in Sandton on 7 May 2007. 
It is based on the international system of Crime Stoppers.
Crime Stoppers started in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in August 1976.
It is a partnership between citizens, the media and law enforcement agencies, and is meant to fight crime and keep citizens safe.
Today there are 1 200 Crime Stoppers programmes worldwide, operating in 20 countries using information given by the community to help solve crime.
According to CEO of Primedia Ltd, Mr William Kirsh, these programmes helped in arresting 600 000 criminals!
What each police officer is supposed to know about this new anti-crime campaign is that it has the full support of the Minister of Safety and Security, Mr Charles Nqakula, and the National Commissioner of the SAPS Jackie Selebi.
Commissioner Selebi promised that "as an agency, we will do everything in our power to make this project a success."
The question is what are you going to do about it?
It needs everybody's full support, not only immediate reaction when you receive urgent information from the agency with numbers of crimes committed, but to also advertise this wherever you can.
Tell all the people, the CPFs, schools, members of your family and friends about his warning.
Ensure them that the campaign promises no come-backs, and that they will remain anonymous no matter what happens.
Remember that this is not an emergency number.
People must still send emergency reports to 10111 or to the police stations that are closest to them.
With this campaign against crime, the media has extended its hand to the police.
They want to help us make South Africa a safe place for everyone.
When this crime line initiative was launched, John Robbie, a broadcaster on Talk Radio 702, provided 65 ID Tool machines.
Mr Robbie made an appeal on air recently to listeners to pledge some money to buy ID Tool machines.
The manufacturers of these machines, Face Technology, also helped by reducing their price to the cost of manufacturing it, something which enabled companies who pledged enough money for one machine to buy two.
Primedia and John Robbie are not the only ones helping the police in the war against crime.
Read some news about its success in the SAPS Journal or in the SAPS Journal Online and you will see how cases were solved with the help of citizens.
With campaigns against crime, criminals, including those in the SAPS, can be sure of one thing ... their days are numbered.
<Doc14>
The accreditation of ETQA as a service provider
South African Government Services
To apply for ETQA accreditation as a service provider for education and training 
Description
The policy regarding Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) bodies under the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) requires the providers of education and training to apply to ETQA for accreditation.
For accreditation, education and training providers must be registered according to the applicable legislation.
The higher education and further training legislation requires providers of education and training, who offer full qualifications, to be registered with the Department of Education.
An education and training provider must provide study assessments and/or qualifications that fall under the focus area of Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) body of the Sector Education and Training Authority (SETA) or professional body.
Requirements for accreditation:
*Requirements for accreditation are found in the document titled Criteria and Guidelines for Providers, which can be found on the SAQA website.
*Subjects (and/or assessments) provided by an education and training provider must be in the form of unit standards and/or qualifications registered on the National Qualifications Framework (NQF).
* The curriculum (schedule, content material and learning) must be associated with unit standards and/or qualifications.
* Staff members (registered lecturers and assessors) must be adequately qualified.
* Students must have access to sufficient learning support services.
* The equipment and assessment methods employed to measure the needs of unit standards and/or qualifications must be fair, true and trustworthy, and must be used to enhance learning.
Steps to be followed:
* Send an application of your intention to be accredited as a provider of education and training to the relevant ETQA.
* Submit your application form to ETQA in which you evaluate yourself.
* If you have not been accredited and you feel that the process was unfair, you have the right to appeal. 
* A list of contact details of the ETQAs can be accessed on the SAQA website.
This can take up to 6 months.
Services are free.
Forms that must be filled out
Application forms for accreditation as a service provider and other relevant documentation can be found at the relevant ETQA.
Contact details – please select an option:
