<Doc01>
South African Social Security Agency
Customer Care Charter
Welcome to our Customer Charter
We want you, our customer, to judge us by the standard of service we set out in this charter.
We will treat you with respect and give you a good service in line with the BATHO PELE principles.
We commit as part of our responsibility to provide a world class service, give you accurate information, advice and assistance on all our services.
Purpose of the Charter
This charter tells you about the standard of service you can expect from the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA).
SASSA is an extension of a government delivery arm that administers the delivery of social grants to the citizens of South Africa.
We commit
To administer quality social security services, cost effectively and efficiently using the best practices.
What you can expect from us
Promotion and protection of human dignity, Confidentiality, Integrity, Fairness, Transparency and Equitability.
Throughout the South African Social Security Agency, we will
Give you information and advice about all the grants that you may apply for.
Refer you to other institutions that may attend to your needs.
Assist you to fill/complete our forms and apply for the grant.
Keep the information you give us confidential.
Always uphold the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the laws governing the public service and the code of conduct of the public service
Serve you in a language of your choice.
Work in partnership with the people we serve and other stakeholders.
Strive for continuous improvement of service delivery in order to meet your expectations
Contacting us
Whenever you contact us in person, telephone, letter or email the following will happen:
The customer service agent you deal with will identify himself/herself.
For telephone and personal queries, we will resolve your queries immediately.
If we cannot resolve immediately we will provide reasons and inform the client when to expect a response.
We will give you a reference number to enable you to make a follow up on your enquiry
We will acknowledge receipt of any communication you send and we will deal with the query within 7 working days.
If we cannot answer you fully within 7 working days, we will tell you why and when can you expect the answer.
We will attempt to solve your query within 21 working days.
If you phone us, we aim to answer your call as quickly as possible in the official language of your choice.
We shall communicate every decision about your grant in writing
At SASSA offices
When you arrive in one of our offices, our help desk staff will assist you immediately.
All our offices are open from 08h00 until 16h30, Monday to Thursday and from 08h00 until 16h00 on Friday.
At our offices and pay points you will have access to the following:
Privacy
Comfortable waiting areas
Toilet facilities
Medical assistance if informed in advance of such a need
We will come to you if for medical reasons you are unable to call into our offices.
You may phone us and we will arrange a home visit.
Dealing with your social grant application
We will begin processing your application on the same day.
We need to make sure that you are legally entitled to the grant.
We set ourselves targets to deal with your claim and pay your grant within 90 days.
We will advise you of your right to appeal in the event of rejections, suspensions and cancellations
Decision making.
If we make a decision about your application for a grant and you think it is wrong, or you would like some further information about the decision, you can do the following:
Ask us to explain the decision in more detail and we will cooperate with your request.
You can appeal our decision only within 30 days of the date on the decision letter.
You may access your file for whatever information you might be in need of.
Your responsibility will be
To provide us with:
Your correct postal and residential address.
Changes in your personal circumstances such as income, address, medical condition etc.
Honest, truthful, accurate and complete information or explanation at all times.
Timely response to all our correspondence including reviews or any other information requested from you.
Unhappy with our services?
If you are unhappy with our service because:
We took too long to process your grant and/or you did not receive your payment in time.
The conduct of our official was undesirable.
Our staff made a mistake on your application or gave you an incorrect advice.
Of any intentional/unintentional mistake on our side
inform us about it and we will immediately correct any mistake we have made.
If you want to make a complaint, please write to us or phone and ask to be referred to our customer care unit.
We will discuss our services with you
We are interested in your views about our services.
We will use the information you give us to improve our services.
Kindly send us feedback in any of the methods following hereunder:
Call our call center toll free number-0800 601 011
Complete a customer comment card available at both our offices and pay points.
Visit our web site at www.sassa.gov.za
Visit any one of our contact points.
(District, local, service and pay points)
Submit a written submission in any of our offices.
Questions or comments about this charter
If you need any further information about this charter, call in to one of our offices.
You can get this charter in Braille, audiotape and CD, if you ask.
This Charter will commence on the 01/04/2007 and will be reviewed annually to accommodate your comments.
<Doc02>
Statistics South Africa – News
Inside Statistics: Need for statistics will increase as democracy deepens
This article was originally published in the Business Report on 05 August 2004
Last week I attended the regional advisory board meeting of the East African Statistical Training Centre in Tanzania, where I had the opportunity of attending the centre's 39th annual graduation ceremony, in which five Statistics SA staff members participated.
The training of Stats SA staff is an organisational passion.
Shortly after I was appointed statistician-general, Stats SA, in conjunction with the Statistics Council, launched an urgent search for institutions offering appropriate training in official data.
We identified two institutions: the training centre in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and the Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics in Uganda.
The training centre was established in 1965 by the UN Economic Commission for Africa, the East African Common Services Organisation and the UN Development Programme.
By 1977, the Tanzanian government had taken over the running of the centre, and expanded the number of African countries it served to 13.
The institute in Uganda was set up in 1969, within the legal framework of Makerere University.
Its stated objective was the high-level training of professionals in statistics and applied economics.
For the past three years, Stats SA has been sending staff members to these institutions.
Last year, the first batch graduated.
Since returning, they have shown a tremendous improvement in performance, with some now occupying management positions.
However, Stats SA is faced with new challenges.
The need for statistical information for decision making, at all three tiers of government, has increased tremendously.
In particular, people trained in the gathering and use of statistical information at municipal level is becoming critical.
To satisfy this need, we will have to train people at a rate of at least 2 000 a year.
The Tanzanian training centre and the Ugandan Institute of Statistics and Applied Economics cannot possibly cope with such a high demand.
Opening the SA Statistical Association conference last year, finance minister Trevor Manuel challenged South African universities to address the shortage of statistical skills available to help the government in making informed decisions based on accurate statistical information.
Stats SA has started discussions with universities with the aim of introducing such training.
However, at present no South African university offers a course in official statistics.
Stats SA is planning to establish a statistical training institute in the near future, offering training in official statistics for both internal staff and personnel from other departments.
The roll-out of a system of national statistics will result in the need for establishing statistics units in the different government departments, generating even greater demand for skilled statistical capacity.
However, the development of statistical capacity is linked to more than the government's need for accurate information.
Statistics go to the heart of democracy.
HG Wells, at the onset of the 20th century, opined that in the future, statistics would be as necessary to citizenry as is the ability to read and write.
Public statistics are a recent cultural achievement that developed with the advent of democracy.
In an African context, where democracy is a more recent phenomenon, we will see a marked increase in the demand for public statistics as democracy deepens.
Statisticians are custodians of democratic principles of transparency in measurement and access, and therefore of accountability.
That is what is at stake in the drive to increase statistical capacity, and to develop the institutions required for a massive and rapid expansion in the teaching of official data.
Pali Lehohla is statistician-general and head of Stats SA.
For more information on Stats SA and its outputs, visit www.statssa.gov.za or call (012) 310-8600
<Doc03>
16 Days of Activism: did you know?
Since 1994, Government has developed legislation to redress the wrongs affecting women and children.
Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000 was passed to ensure that everyone enjoy Constitutional rights.
This Act ensures that women have equal enjoyment of rights and freedoms, in addressing the wrongs of the past.
Employment Equity Act, 1998 ensures that discrimination in employment, occupation and income within the labour market that resulted from apartheid laws are curtailed.
It encourages equitable representation of women and other historically disadvantages persons at all levels of public and private entities.
Maintenance Act, 1998 guarantees the rights of a child to a living standard which is adequate for physical, mental, spiritual and social development.
The Act ensures that maintenance for the child is recovered from the parents or other persons financially responsible for the child.
Domestic Violence Act, 1998 was enacted to afford survivors of violence maximum protection from domestic abuse.
Women, who are at the receiving end of domestic violence, now have a legal recourse that will ensure their protection.
Children's Act, 2005 and Children's Amendment Act, 2007 was enacted to amongst others, protect a child from maltreatment, neglect, abuse or degradation.
Government has implemented and supported many interventions that protect the human dignity of women and children.
The Children's Rights Charter is being reviewed and updated to also include emerging challenges such as use of children as subject of pornography and children's exposure to pornographic material.
Government has responded to the challenge of forced marriage of children to adults under a pretext of a traditional practice called "Ukuthwala".
Government is committed to ensure that traditional and other practices are in line with the Constitution and relevant legislation.
The process is underway to re-establish specialised police units dealing with domestic and sexual offences and other crimes against women and children.
The establishment of specialised units will mobilise the expertise needed to enhance management and successful prosecution of crimes against women and children.
There are currently 17 Thuthuzela Care Centres established across the country in communities with high incidents of sexual violence.
The Centres provide health and welfare services as well as initiate processes for effective reporting and prosecution of offences in a dignified and caring environment by qualified professionals.
Criminal Asset Recovery Funds was used to fund 19 victim empowerment projects.
The Directory on Services for Victims of Violence and Crime which contains services provided by over 1 500 government and civil society organisations in all provinces was developed.
The directory empowers people to access services that are available in their area.
Victim friendly facilities have been established in high contact crime police stations
Dedicated Sexual Offences Courts were developed.
The Domestic Violence Act provided for shelters to be established.
There are currently 96 shelters in South Africa, from 39 in 2001.
The rights of the Victims Charter are being translated into reality for victims of crime that engage with the Criminal Justice System
This Charter includes the Minimum Standards on Services for Victims of Crime, which sets out a legal framework for victims to assert their rights on expected services from the Criminal Justice System.
With implementation of the Victim's Charter, the number of days it took to complete a case in Sexual Offences Court declined from 285 to 142.
The Charter is also a requirement for the Government of South Africa to meet its international obligation in terms of the United Nations (UN) Declaration of the Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power.
International cooperation in addressing challenges of violence against women and children.
South Africa submitted its report on progress made on the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination and discrimination against women to the UN CEDAW committee.
South Africa hosted a Southern African Development Community (SADC) Ministerial Meeting (October 09) to finalise the 10-year regional strategic plan of action on trafficking in persons, especially women and children.
The SADC Protocol on Gender and Development states that SADC Member States shall by 2015 have enacted legislation that fight sexual harassment.
South Africa hosted the Gender Justice Regional Summit (9–10 November 2009), bringing together representatives from Africa countries to share experiences and best practices in eliminating sexual and gender based violence.
Don't look away, act against abuse
<Doc04>
Privacy Statement
The Department of Housing is committed to protecting your privacy and developing technology that gives you the most powerful and safe online experience.
This Statement of Privacy applies to the Department of Housing web site and governs data collection and usage.
By using the Department of Housing website, you consent to the data practices described in this statement.
Collection of your Personal Information
The Department of Housing collects personally identifiable information, such as your e-mail address, name, home or work address or telephone number.
The Department of Housing also collects anonymous demographic information, which is not unique to you, such as your ZIP code, age, gender, preferences, interests and favorites.
There is also information about your computer hardware and software that is automatically collected by the Department of Housing.
This information can include: your IP address, browser type, domain names, access times and referring web site addresses.
This information is used by the Department of Housing for the operation of the service, to maintain quality of the service, and to provide general statistics regarding use of the Department of Housing web site.
Please keep in mind that if you directly disclose personally identifiable information or personally sensitive data through the Department of Housing public message boards, this information may be collected and used by others.
Note: The Department of Housing does not read any of your private online communications.
The Department of Housing encourages you to review the privacy statements of web sites you choose to link to from the Department of Housing so that you can understand how those web sites collect, use and share your information.
The Department of Housing is not responsible for the privacy statements or other content on web sites outside of the Department of Housing and the Department of Housing family of web sites.
Use of your Personal Information
The Department of Housing collects and uses your personal information to operate the Department of Housing web site and deliver the services you have requested.
The Department of Housing also uses your personally identifiable information to inform you of other products or services available from the Department of Housing and its affiliates.
The Department of Housing may also contact you via surveys to conduct research about your opinion of current services or of potential new services that may be offered.
The Department of Housing does not sell, rent or lease its customer lists to third parties.
The Department of Housing may, from time to time, contact you on behalf of external business partners about a particular offering that may be of interest to you.
In those cases, your unique personally identifiable information (e-mail, name, address, telephone number) is not transferred to the third party.
In addition, the Department of Housing may share data with trusted partners to help us perform statistical analysis, send you email or postal mail, provide customer support, or arrange for deliveries.
All such third parties are prohibited from using your personal information except to provide these services to the Department of Housing, and they are required to maintain the confidentiality of your information.
The Department of Housing does not use or disclose sensitive personal information, such as race, religion, or political affiliations, without your explicit consent.
The Department of Housing keeps track of the web sites and pages our customers visit within The Department of Housing, in order to determine what The Department of Housing services are the most popular.
This data is used to deliver customized content and advertising within the Department of Housing to customers whose behavior indicates that they are interested in a particular subject area.
The Department of Housing web sites will disclose your personal information, without notice, only if required to do so by law or in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: (a) conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process served on the Department of Housing or the site; (b) protect and defend the rights or property of the Department of Housing; and, (c) act under exigent circumstances to protect the personal safety of users of the Department of Housing, or the public.
Use of Cookies
The Department of Housing web site use "cookies" to help you personalize your online experience.
A cookie is a text file that is placed on your hard disk by a web page server.
Cookies cannot be used to run programs or deliver viruses to your computer.
Cookies are uniquely assigned to you, and can only be read by a web server in the domain that issued the cookie to you.
One of the primary purposes of cookies is to provide a convenience feature to save you time.
The purpose of a cookie is to tell the web server that you have returned to a specific page.
For example, if you personalize The Department of Housing pages, or register with The Department of Housing site or services, a cookie helps The Department of Housing to recall your specific information on subsequent visits.
This simplifies the process of recording your personal information, such as billing addresses, shipping addresses, and so on.
When you return to the same the Department of Housing web site, the information you previously provided can be retrieved, so you can easily use the Department of Housing features that you customized.
You have the ability to accept or decline cookies.
Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but you can usually modify your browser setting to decline cookies if you prefer.
If you choose to decline cookies, you may not be able to fully experience the interactive features of the Department of Housing services or web sites you visit.
Security of your Personal Information
The Department of Housing secures your personal information from unauthorized access, use or disclosure.
The Department of Housing secures the personally identifiable information you provide on computer servers in a controlled, secure environment, protected from unauthorized access, use or disclosure.
When personal information (such as a credit card number) is transmitted to other web sites, it is protected through the use of encryption, such as the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol.
Changes to this Statement
The Department of Housing will occasionally update this Statement of Privacy to reflect company and customer feedback.
The Department of Housing encourages you to periodically review this Statement to be informed of how the Department of Housing is protecting your information.
Contact Information
The Department of Housing welcomes your comments regarding this Statement of Privacy.
If you believe that the Department of Housing has not adhered to this Statement, please contact the Department of Housing at webmaster@kznhousing.gov.za.
We will use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly determine and remedy the problem.
<Doc05>
Premier Ebrahim Rasool's Speech at the Matriculates Celebratory Function
Today we come here to congratulate our top matriculates.
We say to them: Well done! We are proud of you, the Province and Country are proud of you, your parents are proud of you, and most importantly you should be proud of yourselves.
The reason we invoke pride at a moment like this, is in recognition of the fact that a moment achievement emerges out of a longer time of difficulty and sacrifice, that today represents a moment of clarity out of circumstance which can best be described as complex.
Matric is complex.
Over the last ten years we've had to shift the entire education system out of its apartheid orientation.
To a large extent we've succeeded in terms of greater integration, a single syllabus and exam, greater numbers of those who write and pass matric, and an awareness that education also serves needs beyond the individual - that the entire economy is dependent on the set of skills provided by the education system.
Matric is indeed complex.
Our leaders who gather here at Leeuwenhof are undoubtedly the finest we have, those who have achieved best, and those who are deserving of all the accolades this Province can muster.
Yet our thoughts go out too to the 71% of the population over 20 years old who did not complete secondary education, the roughly half of the 80 000 who entered Grade 1 with you 12 years ago who did not even write the exam in 2004 because they dropped out along the way, and the many who wrote, but because of subject and grade choices, have matric certificates that cannot be absorbed by the economy or tertiary education.
Matric is complicated even more by the fact that you are our shop windows.
The nation judges our future by your performance.
They base their optimism on your wellbeing.
They base their hope in the future by our investment in the education system that converges on this moment of celebration.
And yes, the largest slice of both the national and provincial budgets goes into education.
This year alone, to preserve the employment of 2000 educators we've had to divert money away from the other provincial functions into education.
We have to intensify our investment into poorer schools so that in increasing numbers the equality of education is felt through the greater belief in the future in every township school.
Most importantly, Minister Dugmore and Superintendent-General Swartz, we have one shot at producing a Human Resources Strategy to justify all of this investment.
We need to produce matriculates who are firm in their values, outstanding in their results, relevant to the economy, faithful to their society, and of benefit to humanity.
This is what we came to celebrate here today.
You represent these hopes as we build our Home for All.
We celebrate your achievements because you sacrificed and worked hard, your parents sacrificed and kept you in school, and your society sacrificed and invested in your future.
Many doubt the value of celebrating matric achievements given its complexities and the fact that it may still reflect the residue of an apartheid system.
Only you can overcome this by being actively and consciously committed to building a Home for All, one that is non - racial and more equal.
This must be reflected in all the choices you make from now onward.
Up to now you only had to choose how hard you will work.
Your matric certificate enables and compels you to make decisions and choices about the kind of person you want to be and the kind of life you want to lead.
Congratulations and good luck.
<Doc06>
The 2010 Government Communication Project Management mission is to:
facilitate the achievement of the strategic communication objectives for the first African FIFA World Cup
make the most of this unique opportunity to express and further build unity and pride among South Africans
inspire our youth
market the country to the world
create a communication climate that helps use this chance to speed up development and expand opportunities
build African solidarity.
This will be achieved through:
providing leadership and coordination for government communication for the 2010 World Cup
building a national partnership of public and private communicators across disciplines, as well as forging alliances with communicators on the continent and in the diaspora, so that collectively the country and continent can take advantage of this communication opportunity of a lifetime
undertaking key government communication projects for the 2010 Soccer World Cup.
<Doc07>
National Road Traffic Regulations Amended to improve road safety
POLOKWANE: The National Road Traffic Regulations have been amended.
It is called the Seventeenth Amendment and came into force on publication.
The Department of Roads and Transport informs motorists of the amendments which are:
New motor vehicles registered after 01 August 2010 must have number plates that are fitted with pop rivets or screws.
If it cannot be fitted to the vehicle it must be fitted to a bracket that complies with SANS 973.
This amendment will minimize crime and road traffic offences by motorists who easily remove the number plates so that they are not traceable.
It will not be easy to remove the number plate and put it back after the commission of crime since it will always incur additional costs.
The number plate is made out of aluminium which will make it difficult to burn beyond recognition during an accident scene.
As of 1 February 2011 persons who obtain driving licences for a code C, C1, EC or EC1 driving licence will not be allowed to drive a motor vehicle that requires a code B or code EB licence (in old terms a person with a code 10, 11, 13 or 14 licence cannot drive a vehicle for which you need a code 08 licence).
This will only apply to new licence holders.
Quite a big number of learner drivers apply for heavy motor vehicles driving licences as opposed to light motor vehicles so that they can avoid parallel parking tests as an example.
The reality is that once they have obtained their heavy motor vehicle licences, they drive light motor vehicles of which they are not familiar with its driving controls and end up being involved in accidents.
It is also expected that all those drivers that have obtained heavy motor vehicle driving licences should possess Professional Driving Permits but, the statistics shows something different.
This proves the fact that the applicants needed the driving licences for light motor vehicles not for heavy motor vehicles.
Directional Stability Control Devices for mini and midi buses are introduced through a certification process that forms part of the roadworthy test.
It applies to all mini and midi buses and not only newly manufactured vehicles.
The registered owner of a motor vehicle or proxy must submit a duly completed form DSCD to the testing station.
A Directional Stability Control Device is a device that prevents a tyre dislodging from the rim when the tyre burst whilst the vehicle is motion.
An amendment to Regulation 332 was published and lists the evidential breath testers that may be used to collect evidential breath samples and the certificate issued by the manufacturer or supplier may be used as evidence in cases, by the mere production thereof.
This amendment seeks to address the issue that was raised pertaining to the legality of the breathalysers in terms of section 65(7) of the National Road Traffic Act, 1996 and complies with SABS 1793 and may be used to ascertain the concentration of alcohol in breath.
The following are the prescribed equipment’s:
"This is more opportune during this festive season as it gives an added boost to our efforts to fighting drunken driving on our roads", says MEC of Roads and Transport Pinky Kekana.
<Doc08>
Antenatal (Pre-Birth) Health Services
Pregnant girls and women are referred to maternity services or Midwife Obstetric Units (MOUs) in urban areas, and satellite or fixed clinics in the rural areas.
MOUs are birthing units run by midwives in the community for primary healthcare patients.
It's advisable for expectant mothers to book their first visit to the clinic before 20 weeks or as soon as possible thereafter.
The mother is given a full initial assessment and counselling when she comes for her first antenatal visit, also known as the booking visit.
The pregnancy is monitored through regular follow-up visits.
The mother's health is also closely monitored.
She will be weighed, her blood pressure taken and urine tested.
If there are no complications, she should return for her first follow-up visit after two weeks for the results of the tests taken during the booking visit.
After this, she must return to the clinic every six weeks up to 28 weeks, then at 34 weeks, thereafter as indicated by the clinic/MOU staff (frequency of visits may differ from area to area).
Pregnant mothers are screened for possible risks to their health and the health of the foetus.
Both teenage girls and women over 35 years old who are pregnant are regarded as high-risk cases.
This means they are more likely to have complications during pregnancy and birth.
Pregnant women may also be seen to be high risk if they have raised blood pressure, a history of genetic disorders, a multiple pregnancy and if they have had previous surgery such as a caesarean section.
Mothers who are diagnosed as high risk are referred up the line to out-patient antenatal clinics at the secondary or tertiary level hospitals, where further investigations and screening tests are carried out.
Mothers with high-risk pregnancies are advised to attend outpatient antenatal clinics as often as necessary.
If you are a first-time visitor to a health facility, you will be asked to fill out a form and a folder will be opened.
Bring your ID book, any medication you are taking and a clinic or hospital card, if previously registered at the facility.
Low-risk pregnancies are managed at MOUs (birthing units run by midwives in the community for primary healthcare patients) in urban areas, and satellite and fixed clinics in the rural areas.
High-risk pregnancies are managed at out-patient clinics at urban and rural regional hospitals and tertiary hospitals.
<Doc09>
Integrated Nutrition Programme
The Integrated Nutrition Programme (INP) aims to improve the nutritional status of all people living in the Western Cape province.
There are numerous aspects to this programme.
What is malnutrition?
Malnutrition is a serious problem in South Africa and is one of the biggest contributors to childhood illness and death.
It is estimated that about 30% of South African children are stunted from a lack of adequate nutrition in the early years of their lives.
Inadequate food intake, illness and psychosocial stress/trauma are the most significant immediate causes of malnutrition.
Poverty and lack of resources are basic factors that contribute to malnutrition.
The INP tries to deal with this silent epidemic in a number of ways.
Supplements for children
At primary health care level children who are examined and identified as undernourished (this includes children and adults who are HIV positive and with tuberculosis) will be given food supplements including fortified maize meal and a high-energy drink.
Supplements are given to identified clients according to criteria.
Health workers also provide counselling, information and education about healthy diets and the healthiest ways of preparing food.
Dieticians also provide specialised services to the community.
Breastfeeding
To help fight malnourishment in early childhood health workers encourage women to breastfeed their children exclusively until six months of age and thereafter to continue breastfeeding in addition to the introduction of appropriate complementary foods, until the child is two years old.
Other feeding options are discussed with mothers who are HIV positive.
Vredendal Hospital and Groote Schuur Maternity Centre are Baby Friendly Hospitals in the province according to the Baby friendly Hospital Initiative.
Growth monitoring
All children are weighed regularly as part of the growth monitoring programme, a sensitive indicator of whether the child is growing.
The weight is entered onto the Road to Health Card.
Underlying causes for weight loss are looked into such as infectious diseases, shortage of food at home and child neglect.
Infectious diseases play a great part in undernourishment and these illnesses are treated at primary health care level.
Diarrhoeal disease is closely related to poor environmental hygiene (sanitation and water supply) and under- or poor nutrition of an infant, which in turn makes him/her more vulnerable to serious and prolonged diarrhoea.
Poverty alleviation
Poverty stricken households are identified and referred to one of the government's poverty alleviation programmes.
Household food security is addressed intersectorally and appropriate interventions and support are provided.
Vitamin supplements
Controlling micronutrient deficiencies is an essential part of the service.
Micronutrients are natural substances such as vitamins and minerals, which are found in small amounts in food and are very important in maintaining good health.
The INP provides Vitamin A supplementation to targeted children.
Children who lack Vitamin A lose weight, fail to grow properly and are more likely to get infections and to die from them.
A lack of Vitamin A also damages the eye and is one of the main causes of blindness amongst children.
Children with low birth weights are given Vitamin A capsules, which boost the immune system and help with the child's developmental growth.
Infants from 6-11 months are given a single dose of Vitamin A (100 000 IU) to prevent severe illness.
Children from 12 months to five years old are given a single dose of 200 000 IU at 12 months then a dose of 200 000 IU every six months until five years of age.
Additional doses of Vitamin A are given to children who are severely malnourished, or who have persistent infectious diseases such as diarrhoea, measles or HIV infection.
De-worming
Weight loss in children can also be due to worm infestation and this can be treated at the clinic with de-worming medication.
Nutritional advice for specific conditions
Nutritional education, information and counselling is given at all levels of care to people who have had strokes, who have hypertension, high blood pressure, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis.
Primary school nutrition programme
The Primary School Nutrition Programme is available at specifically identified sub-economic schools.
These schemes are currently run jointly with the Department of Education.
The provincial government aims to reach 125 000 children at 847 primary schools in the province by 2004 with its school-feeding programme.
Food in institutions
The INP also contributes to the institutional care of clients through food service systems for the provision of balanced nutrition.
Instructions:
First time visitors to the clinic/secondary or tertiary hospital will be asked to fill out a form and a folder will be opened for the patient.
Bring your ID book.
A referral letter from the clinic will be required when visiting a hospital.
Hospitals will ask for your most recent payslip/income assessment (IRP5).
Bring your hospital card if previously registered at the hospital.
<Doc10>
Address by Deputy Minister of Public Works, Mr Ntopile Kganyago, MP, on the occasion of the first public launch of the Tshwane Inner City Programme, South African Reserve Bank Building, Tshwane
Other senior government officials
Ladies and gentlemen of the media
Distinguished guests
The decision taken by the Cabinet in 1997 to encourage national government departments to make the inner city of Tshwane their permanent home was a demonstration of a great vision; then and now.
The outcome is a well-orchestrated plan to link the rejuvenation of our cities to the government's call of urban renewal and other spatial development initiatives designed to promote urban management ethos that is responsive to human rights, hospitable habitats, economic development and social cohesion.
Today as we cast the first stone in the realisation of that vision, we also are celebrating the journey we have travelled to date.
Intensive consultations often characterised by equally intensive debates about the needs of and options open to government departments in as far as their physical environment is concerned did not derail all of us from the primordial objectives, namely to improve the physical working environment of government departments in the inner city of Tshwane.
At the same time we need to concurrently contribute to the inner city's renewal and rejuvenation.
Other objectives by no means less important include a drive to attract the private sector investment, develop the image of Tshwane as an important capital city in Africa and promoting black economic empowerment.
Government is the biggest property owner and among the leading investors in the economic life of the local government particularly in the Johannesburg and Tshwane Metros in Gauteng.
Departments require functional as well as office accommodation to meet out their public service delivery obligations in fulfilment of their mandates.
It is common knowledge that most government buildings are in the category good to fair as opposed excellent in terms of their conditions.
Renovations, upgrades and repairs will spearhead capital expenditure and contribute to BEE component of the Tshwane Inner City Project.
Annually the national government through the Department of Public Works spent in excess of two billion rand (R2 billion) to pay for leases and other related property management tariffs such as rates and services, nationwide, with both the private sector and the local government as beneficiaries.
Invariably it is the same stakeholders that are expected to drive the process of Tshwane inner city regeneration, possibly with the participation of the Gauteng Provincial Government through their major investment projects as espoused by the Gauteng Economic Development Agency (GEDA).
In the context of the Tshwane Inner City Programme, henceforth known as "Re Kgabisa Tshwane" and sub-titled "A Better Place To Work", the focus is as much on the people (both the public servants and the public), as it is on the physical spaces they inhabit in the course of delivering and receiving essential public services.
When announcing the government's Programme of Action of 2004, the President, Mr Thabo Mbeki called on the national departments of Public Works as well Public Service and Administration to jointly steer the project to improve the physical working environment of government departments and public servants.
Public physical infrastructure is the engine of service delivery and the government officials are the fuel propelling the engine and making it rev faster, efficiently and effectively.
During the needs assessment phase of the project, many government employees consulted emphasised the importance of having excellent working spaces, which befit their call of duty and these included both the interior and the external environments hence the necessity to partner with the Tshwane Metro, which is responsible for most urban management aspects such as traffic, cleanliness, safety, security and aesthetics.
Let me take this opportunity to thank the Tshwane management and leadership for their foresight in embracing this project by readily aligning it to their own Integrated Development Plans.
In fact the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that we will be entering into in short while today between the national Department of Public Works and the City of Tshwane Metro, is an affirmation of having found a common ground from which to depart.
It is a declaration of intent to co-operate on initiatives and projects mutually beneficial to both parties.
Our message to you today is that "the work has begun" and the next 10 years will see an injection of over eight billion rand (R8 billion) by national government and private sector through capital budgets, leasehold improvements and public-private-partnerships.
In terms of Programme Management, a Steering Committee has been established between Department of Public Service and Administration, Department of Public Works, National Treasury and the City of Tshwane.
Among others the Committee will champion the programme, oversee and monitor implementation, finalise the funding strategy and ensure co-ordinated implementation.
The Department has appointed Mr Dumisani Dlamini as the Deputy Director-General responsible for the entire programme management.
I thank you.
<Doc11>
Madam Speaker, the Honourable Premier, Cabinet Colleagues, Members of the House, Honoured guests, the officials of the department of housing, members of the media and the public at large, a warm welcome.
These words ladies and gentlemen reflect upon the South African politics, especially in the Western Cape.
No matter how hard dedicated and progress-loving people of this country work, some people's mission is always to trivialize the wonderful work that has been done by this caring government within the shortest time possible it has been in office.
Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of people have argued what housing is all about, but allow me to give you yet another version.
For me, housing is not only about shelter.
It is about people themselves taking responsibility for sustaining their common environment and shaping their future.
It is about creating viable communities and sustainable living environments.
It is about prosperity in unity through partnerships between private sector, public sector, Non-Governmental Organisations, but most importantly, communities.
Housing to me could best be described as a process, which involves planning with people as opposed to planning for the people.
Housing in the South African context is not just a product, but also a process that is based on democratic values that the people of this country fought so hard for.
It is a process that listens to the people, allows people to exercise their democratic right to choose the type of housing and areas they want their houses built.
There is therefore nothing so dehumanizing and undemocratic than to deprive people of their fundamental right of choice.
Unlike the apartheid regime, as a social activist, people are at the centre of my housing delivery vision and strategy.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy this afternoon to be presenting to you my second budget speech as the Provincial Minister of Housing.
I am also proud that I am presenting this budget speech on the eve of the 10th Anniversary of our democracy.
There is concrete evidence that the ANC-led government has achieved a lot in just less than ten years of its democratic rule than any other country has ever done worldwide.
Sisebenzile - We have achieved.
In concrete terms, of the 1.4 million housing opportunities that the government has delivered, I am proud to announce that our province has in the past nine years, delivered 167 000 units, which is 11% of the national cake.
This, in my view is an excellent performance by any standard.
I would also like to register that the past year was full of challenges, which impacted negatively on the delivery of housing in the country as the whole, but in the province in particular.
These challenges were as a result of the introduction of the new policy prescripts and mechanisms such as beneficiary contribution of R2 479 and the introduction of the National Homebuilders Registration Council Warranty Scheme on government subsidized housing.
These measures are not aimed at slowing delivery but to make sure that our people receive quality affordable housing.
The learning curve we are undergoing in implementing these policies has however slowed down delivery.
Making matters even worse was the fact that my department operated without a Chief Director for nine months.
This retarded progress to a very large degree.
I have since appointed one, Mr. Seth Maqethuka, a born and bred Cape Tonian with national and local government experiences, whom I would like to congratulate and welcome even though I have done it so many times.
In spite of all these challenges and constraints, I am proud to announce to our people that my department has managed to spend R348 million, which is 92% of the housing allocation to the Western Cape.
Some of the provinces have barely spent 52% of their budget.
This has resulted in the approval of approximately 25 000 housing subsidies.
More and more poor families will be getting a chance to enjoy the fruits of our democracy.
This ladies and gentlemen, represents a significant increase of 3000 units compared to the previous year.
In this regard, I would like to acknowledge the important role-played by municipalities within our province.
Without their commitment and sterling work, we would not have been able to spend.
In the same breath, I would like to congratulate the City of Cape Town on having spent about 70% of our budget.
I am also not forgetting my officials for their hard work and contribution to our vision of housing the nation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would not be truthful to the dictates of my conscience if I only gave a rosy picture of the housing delivery process.
There are gaps that still remain in our delivery process.
To this end, we still need to improve on the following pressing areas:
Most of our houses have not yet complied with the policy shift-from quantity to quality housing.
We still need to change the process of housing delivery from that of providing shelter to that of creating sustainable human settlements.
We need to transform the participation by beneficiaries from passive to active participation.
We need to change the mind sets of our people so that they can begin to look at the government subsidized houses not as mere products but as assets.
<Doc12>
SECTOR POLICING WORKS
Big was the relief for mother and child when the 16-days-old James Busakwe was reunited with his biological mother on 7 April 2006.
The ordeal started when baby James's mother arrived at the Klerksdorp Hospital on 6 April to visit her son, and nursing staff realized that the child had been given to another woman, claiming to be the biological mother of the child the previous day.
Immediately after the discovery was made, nurses informed the Kanana Police Station, as the woman who had collected James gave up an address in Kanana.
The address was checked but without success.
Nobody by the name or description of the woman was known at this address.
On the evening of 6 April the Kanana CPF held a meeting.
The acting station commissioner informed the meeting of the kidnapped child and requested everyone to keep their eyes and ears open.
At about 23:00 the same night, one of the community members called the police with information that a woman living in his sector, and who was not known to have been pregnant, suddenly had a baby boy with her.
The police followed up the information and indeed found the woman and the child.
Hospital personnel were called out and immediately identified the child, as well as the woman who had kidnapped him from the hospital.
Various evidence, including the plastic hospital bracelet, was found at the suspect's house.
The woman was arrested and the unharmed child was taken back to hospital, where he was reunited with his real mother the next morning.
The actions of the members of the community involved in the discovery of the child, must be applauded, as it highlighted the value of Community Policing.
The value of Sector Policing implemented and maintained correctly, must never be underestimated.
Keep up the good work, Kanana CPF!
Dear Madam
I presume it was luck or maybe good fortune that I had to pass by your police station in Mondeor, and so I came upon your SAPS Journal.
I presume it gets published once a month, and I found it very interesting reading.
My wife and I just started a new business and would like to invite all, or any of your personnel when they are in our area, to pop in for a free cup of coffee or tea and hopefully we would have a biscuit or two available for them as well.
As I am sure you will understand, starting a new business isn't easy and takes a lot of work and capital.
However, we still believe that the police and all the other law enforcement departments are very important to all South African citizens.
This is just something small we would like to offer you all to thank you for what you have sacrificed to ensure that we, the citizens, can go ahead with our daily lives.
We are looking forward to hearing from, or even better, seeing some of your personnel in uniform, popping into our little shop and getting to know them better.
Thanks again to you, the law enforcement personnel of South Africa, for all your hard work and dedication in keeping South Africa safe.
Short, factual letters can be faxed or emailed to the Editor.
We reserve the right to edit or shorten letters.
<Doc13>
A CALL TO ACTION
On 14 June 2007, one of the articles on the SAPS Journal Online (www.sapsjournalon-line.gov.za) described how two police officials of the Welkom Vehicle Identification Section were arrested for corruption and fraud.
Reportedly these two, a superintendent and an inspector, sold vehicles that had been recovered by the police, for their own gain.
Both suspects appeared in court on 12 June and the case was postponed to 21 August 2007.
One day later, on 15 June 2007, a News24 headline declared: "Two cops up for armed robbery".
This time it was a student constable and an inspector who had reportedly held up a clothing store in Marble Hall, stealing money, trousers and a shirt.
Corruption in the police has to come to an end.
While most of us are honest, hard-working citizens, a few of the police officials show no respect for themselves, their uniform or the Police Code of Conduct.
It is high time that we rid the SAPS once and for all of all these negative elements.
And now you can help to dispose of the corrupt cops by exposing them on a new crime line.
Anonymously!
If you suspect one of your colleagues are up to no good, or if you know of anyone else, be they police officials, family members, colleagues, neighbors or strangers, who are involved with or are planning to become involved with criminal activities, all you have to do, is to send an SMS to 32211.
That is the new national crime line number that was recently launched by Primedia in Sandton.
You can either send an SMS to 32211 (at a cost of R1 each) or go to www.crime-line.co.za.
Trained data capturers are waiting to pass the information to the police, who will act on it immediately!
The best part is that you will remain anonymous.
Now you have the power to help fight crime without endangering yourself.
The Primedia initiative promises no comebacks.
Yusuf Abramjee, the Primedia Anti-crime Project Coordinator, said: "We don't want your name or address unless you volunteer to give it to us and there is no need for any statements or court appearances.
All we want is information about criminals so that the police can act on it."
This new, multimillion rand, national anti-crime campaign was launched by Primedia in Sandton on 7 June 2007.
It is based on the Crime Stoppers International system.
Crime Stoppers began in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in September 1976.
It is a partnership between the community, the media and law enforcement agencies and was designed to combat crime and keep residents safe.
Today, there are about 1 200 Crime Stoppers programs across the globe functioning in 20 countries that use information provided by the community to help solve crimes.
According to the CEO of Primedia Ltd, Mr William Kirsh, these programs have assisted in arresting 600 000 criminals!
What every police official must know about this new anti-crime campaign, is that it has the full support of the Minister for Safety and Security, Mr Charles Nqakula and the National Commissioner of the SAPS, Commissioner Jackie Selebi.
Commissioner Selebi promised that "as an organisation, we are going to do every-thing in our power to make this project work."
The question is what are you going to do about it?
Everybody's full support is required, not only to react immediately should you receive information from the crime line centre, but also to market this initiative wherever you can.
Tell the people, the CPFs, the schools, your family and friends about this initiative.
Ensure that they understand that the campaign promises no come-backs, that they will remain anonymous no matter what.
And remember that this is not an emergency line.
People should still report emergencies to 10111 or their nearest police stations.
Through this anti-crime campaign the media has extended a hand to the police.
They want to help us to make South Africa a safer place for all.
At the launch of the crime line initiative, John Robbie, the morning show host of Talk Radio 702, handed 65 ID Tool machines to the SAPS.
Mr Robbie recently made an on-air appeal to listeners to pledge towards these ID Tool machines.
The machines' retailer, Face Technology, also came on board, cutting the price of the machines down to cost, which enabled companies who had originally pledged enough money for one machine to purchase two.
Primedia and John Robbie are not the only ones who are actually helping the police in the fight against crime.
Read any of the success stories in the SAPS Journal or on the SAPS Journal Online and you will see how cases were solved with the help of community members.
With this new anti-crime campaign in place, the criminals, including those few corrupt ones in the service, can know one thing for sure ... their days are numbered.
<Doc14>
ETQA service provider accreditation
South Africa Government Services
Application to an ETQA for accreditation as a provider of education and training
Description
The regulations that apply to the Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) bodies under the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA) require that providers of education and training apply for accreditation to an ETQA.
To be accredited, providers of education and training are required to be registered in terms of the applicable legislation.
Legislation with regard to Higher Education and Further Education requires that all providers of education and training offering full qualifications be registered with the Department of Education.
The provider of education and training has to offer unit standards and/or qualifications that fall within the primary focus area of the Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) body of the Sector Education and Training Authority (SETA) or Professional Body.
Requirements for accreditation:
* The requirements for accreditation are contained in the document titled Criteria and Guidelines for Providers and is available on the SAQA website.
* The programmes (and/or assessments) offered by the provider of education and training culminate in unit standards and/or qualifications registered on the National Qualifications Framework (NQF).
* The curriculum (design, content and learning materials) is aligned to the unit standards and/or qualifications.
* There are suitably qualified staff (facilitators and registered assessors).
* The learners have access to adequate learning support services.
* The assessment methods and tools used to measure the requirements for the unit standard and/or qualification are fair, valid and reliable, and are used to enhance learning.
Steps to follow
* Send a letter of your intention to be accredited as a provider of education and training to the relevant ETQA.
* Submit a self-evaluation and application form to ETQA.
* If you are not granted accreditation and you feel the process was unfair, you have a right to appeal.
* A list of ETQAs and contact details are available on the SAQA website.
It may take up to 6 months.
The service is free.
Forms to complete
Provider accreditation application forms and related documentation may be obtained from the relevant ETQA.
Contact details – Please select one option:
