<Doc01>
South African Social Security Agency
Customer Care Charter
Welcome to our Client Charter
We want you, our client, to judge us according to the standard of service we set out in this charter.
We will treat you with respect, and give you good service in accordance with the BATHO PELE principles.
As part of our responsibility, we promise to deliver a world class service, and to give you accurate information, advice and assistance for all our services.
Aim of the Charter
This charter tells you what standard of service you can expect from the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA).
SASSA is an extension of a government delivery branch that administers the delivery of social grants to the citizens of South Africa.
We promise
To administer quality social security services cost-effectively and efficiently using the best practices
What you can expect from us
Promotion and protection of human dignity, confidentiality, integrity, fairness, transparency and equity.
Throughout the South African Social Security Agency we will
Give you information and advice about all the grants you can apply for.
Refer you to other institutions that can see to your needs.
Assist you in filling in/completing our forms and in applying for the grant.
Keep the information you give to us confidential.
Always uphold the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, the laws governing the public service and the code of conduct of the public service.
Serve you in a language of your choice.
Cooperate with the people we serve and other stakeholders.
Strive for ongoing improvement of service delivery to meet your expectations.
Contact us
When you contact us in person or by telephone, letter or email, the following will happen:
The customer service agent you connect to will identify himself or herself.
For telephonic and personal enquiries, we will resolve your enquiries immediately.
If we cannot solve them immediately, we will give reasons and tell the client when a response can be expected.
We will give you a reference number so you can do a follow-up enquiry about your enquiry.
We will acknowledge receipt of any communication you send, and we will handle the enquiry within 7 business days.
If we cannot answer you fully within 7 days, we will tell you why and when you can expect the answer.
We will try to resolve your query within 21 business days.
If you contact us telephonically, we will try to answer your call as soon as possible in the official language of your choice.
We will inform you in writing of every decision about your grant.
At SASSA offices
Our helpdesk staff will immediately assist you when you arrive at one of our offices.
All our offices are open from 08h00 to 16h30, Monday to Thursday, and from 08h00 to 16h00 on Friday.
You will have access to the following at our offices and pay points:
Privacy
Comfortable waiting areas
Toilet facilities
Medical assistance, if you inform us beforehand of such a need
We will come to you if for medical reasons you cannot come to our offices.
You can call us and we will arrange a home visit.
Handling your application for a social grant
We will start to process your application on the same day.
We must make sure that you are legally entitled to the grant.
We set targets for ourselves to handle your claim and pay your grant within 90 days.
We will inform you of your right to appeal in the case of rejections, suspensions and cancellations.
Decision-making
If we make a decision on your application for a grant, and you think it is incorrect, or if you want more information about the decision, you can do the following:
Ask us to explain the decision in more detail, and we will comply with your request.
You can only appeal against our decision within 30 days of the date on the letter of decision.
You can get access to your file for any information you need.
Your responsibility will be
To provide us with:
Your correct mail and email address.
Changes in your personal circumstances, such as income, address, medical condition, etc.
Honest, correct, accurate and complete information or explanations at all times. 
Timely response to all our correspondence, including reviewing any other information needed from you.
Unhappy with our service?
If you are unhappy with our service because:
We took too long to process your grant and/or you did not receive your payment on time.
The conduct of our official was undesirable.
Our staff made a mistake with your request or gave you incorrect advice.
Any intended/unintended mistake on our part
inform us of it, and we will immediately correct any mistake we have made.
If you want to make a complaint, please write to us or call and ask to be referred to our client services unit.
We will discuss our services with you.
We are interested in your opinion of our services.
We will use the information you give to us to improve our services.
Please send us feedback according to any of the methods below:
Call our toll-free call centre number – 0800 601 011. 
Complete a client comment card available at all our offices and pay points.
Visit our website at www.sassa.gov.za.
Visit any of our points of contact.
 (District, local, service and pay points)
Hand in a written submission at any of our offices.
Questions or comments about this charter
If you want any further information about this charter, contact any of our offices.
You can get this charter in Braille, audio cassette or CD, if you ask.
This charter comes into effect on 01/04/2007 and will be reviewed annually to make provision for your comments.
<Doc02>
Statistics South Africa - News
Inside Statistics: Need for statistics will increase as democracy deepens
This article was originally published on 05 August 2004 in the Business Report
Last week I attended the district advisory council meeting of the East African Statistics Training Centre in Tanzania, where I had the opportunity to attend the centre’s 39th annual graduation ceremony, in which five staff members of Statistics SA participated.
The training of Statistics SA staff is an organisational passion.
Shortly after my appointment as Statistician-General, Statistics SA in collaboration with the Statistics Council began an urgent search for institutions offering relevant training in official data.
We identified two institutions: the training centre in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and the Institute for Statistics and Applied Economics in Uganda.
The training centre was inaugurated in 1965 by the UN’s Economic Commission for Africa, the Eastern African Organisation for Common Services, and the UN’s Development Programme.
By 1977 the Tanzanian government had taken over the management of the centre and expanded the number of African countries served by the centre to 13.
The institute in Uganda was established in 1969, within the legal framework of the Makerere University.
The stated aim was the high-level training of professionals in statistics and applied economics.
Statistics SA has been sending members of staff to these institutions for the past three years.
The first group graduated last year.
Since their return, they have shown an incredible improvement in performance and some now hold management positions.
However, Statistics SA are facing new challenges.
The need for statistical information for decision-making, on all three government levels, is increasing dramatically.
People, especially those trained in the collection and use of statistical information at municipal level, are becoming vital.
To meet this need, we will need to train our people at a rate of at least 2 000 per year.
The Tanzanian training centre and the Ugandan Institute for Statistics and Applied Economics can by no means meet such a big demand.
During the opening of the SA Statistics Association’s conference last year the Minister of Finance, Trevor Manuel, challenged South African universities to devote attention to the lack of available statistical skills to help the government make informed decisions based on accurate statistical information.
Statistics SA has started discussions with universities with the aim of establishing such training.
However, at this stage no South African university provides a course on official statistics.
Statistics SA plans to establish a statistics training centre in the near future, which will provide training in official statistics for both internal staff and staff from other departments.
The implementation of a system of national statistics will lead to the need to establish statistics units in the different government departments, which will lead to an even greater demand for trained statistic capacity.
However, the development of statistic capacity has a bearing on more than the government’s need for accurate information.
Statistics touches on the core of democracy.
HG Wells said at the beginning of the 20th century that in the future, statistics will become as vital to the citizenry as the ability to read and write.
Public statistics is a recent cultural achievement that developed with the arrival of democracy.
In an African context, where democracy is a more recent phenomenon, there will be a marked increase in the demand for public statistics as democracy deepens.
Statisticians are guardians of democratic principles of transparency in measuring and access, and thus of accountability. 
This is what is at stake in the effort to expand statistic capacity and to develop the institutions needed for a massive and rapid expansion of the instruction of official data.
Pali Lehohla is Statistician-General and head of Statistics SA.
For more information about Statistics SA and its outputs, visit www.statssa.gov.za or call (012) 310-8600
<Doc03>
16 Days of Activism: did you know?
The government has been developing legislation since 1994 to rectify the injustice that women and children are affected by.
The Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000, was adopted to ensure that everyone enjoys their Constitutional rights.
This law ensures that women have equal rights and freedoms, to rectify the injustice of the past. 
The Employment Equity Act, 1998, ensures that discrimination in service, occupation, and income in the labour market arising from apartheid laws, is lessened.
This encourages equitable representation of women and other historically disadvantaged persons at all levels of public and private entities.
The Maintenance Act, 1998, guarantees the rights of a child at a standard of living that is adequate for physical, mental, spiritual and social development.
The Act ensures that the maintenance for the child is recovered from the parents or other persons who are financially responsible for the child.
The Domestic Violence Act, 1998, was enacted to give survivors of violence the maximum protection against domestic violence.
Women, who are on the receiving end of domestic violence, now have a legal recourse that will ensure their protection.
The Children’s Act, 2005, and the Children’s Amendment Act, 2007, were enacted to, among other things, protect a child against abuse, neglect, misuse or humiliation. 
The government implements and supports many interventions that protect the human dignity of women and children.
The Children’s Rights Charter is being reviewed and updated to also include emergent challenges such as the use of children as the subject of pornography and exposing children to pornographic material.
The government is reacting to the challenge of forced marriages of children to adults under the pretence of a traditional practice called “Ukuthwala”.
The government is committed to ensuring that traditional and other practices are in line with the Constitution and applicable legislation.
The process is under way to re-establish specialised police units that handle domestic and sexual offences and other crimes against women and children. 
The establishing of specialised units will mobilise the expertise needed to improve the management and successful prosecution of crimes against women and children.
There are currently 17 Thuthuzela care centres throughout the country in communities with a high prevalence of sexual violence.
The centres deliver health and welfare services and also initiate processes for effective reporting and prosecution of offences, in a dignified and caring environment by qualified professionals.
Funds from the Recovery of Criminal Assets were used to fund 19 victim empowerment projects.
The Guide on Services for Victims of Violence and Crime, containing services delivered by more than 1 500 government and civilian community organisations in all the provinces, was developed.
The guide empowers people to make use of services that are available in their area.
Victim-friendly facilities were established in police stations with high contact crime.
Dedicated courts for sexual offences were developed.
The Domestic Violence Act makes provision for the establishment of shelters.
There are currently 96 shelters in South Africa, compared to 39 in 2001.
The rights in the Victim Charter are realised for victims of crime who become involved with the criminal law system.
This charter includes the Minimum Standards on Services for Victims of Crime, which sets forth a legal framework for victims to insist on their rights to expected services from the criminal law system.
Since the implementation of the Victim Charter, the number of days it takes to conclude a case in sexual offences courts has dropped from 285 to 142. 
The charter is also a requirement for the Government of South Africa to comply with its international obligation in accordance with the United Nations (UN) Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power.
International cooperation to confront violence against women and children.
South Africa has submitted its report on progress with the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women to the UN’s CEDAW committee.
South Africa presented a Ministerial Meeting of the South African Development Community (SAOG) (09 October) to finalise the 10 year regional strategic plan of action on human trafficking, especially women and children.
The SAOG protocol on Gender and Development states that SAOG member countries must have enacted legislation to fight against sexual harassment by 2015.
South Africa presented the Regional Conference on Gender Justice (9 - 10 November), where representatives from African countries came together to share experiences and best practices to eliminate sexual and gender-based violence.
Don’t look away, do something against abuse
<Doc04>
Privacy Statement
The Department of Housing is committed to protecting your privacy and developing technology that gives you the most powerful and safest online experience.
This Privacy Statement applies to the Department of Housing’s website and governs the collection and use of data.
By using the Department of Housing’s website, you agree to the data practices described in this statement.
Collection of your Personal Information
The Department of Housing collects personal identifiable information, such as your email address, name, home or work address or telephone number.
The Department of Housing also collects anonymous demographic information, which is not unique to you, such as your ZIP code, age, gender, preferences, interests and favourites.
There is also information about your computer’s hardware and software that is automatically collected by the Department of Housing.
This information can include: your IP address, browser type, domain names, access times and website addresses referred to.
This information is used by the Department of Housing for managing the service, to maintain the health of the service and to provide general statistics on the use of the Department of Housing’s website.
Please remember that if you disclose personal identifiable information or personally sensitive data directly through the Department of Housing’s public message boards, this information could be collected and used by others.
Note: The Department of Housing does not read any of your private online communication.
The Department of Housing encourages you to study the privacy statements of websites that you want to connect to from the Department of Housing, so you can understand how those websites collect, use and share your information.
The Department of Housing is not responsible for the privacy statements or other content outside Department of Housing and the Department of Housing family of websites.
Use of your Personal Information
The Department of Housing collects your personal information and uses it to run the Department of Housing’s website and deliver the services you requested.
The Department of Housing also uses your personal identifiable information to inform you of other products or services that are available from the Department of Housing and its subsidiaries.
The Department of Housing could also contact you through surveys to do research on your opinion of current services or of potential new services that may be offered.
The Department of Housing does not sell or hire out its client lists to third parties.
The Department of Housing may contact you from time to time on behalf of external business partners about a specific offer that may interest you.
In those cases, your unique personal identifiable information (email, name, address, telephone number) will not be transferred to the third party.
Furthermore, the Department of Housing may share data with trusted partners to help us to do statistical analysis, send email or surface mail, provide customer service or arrange deliveries.
All such third parties are prohibited from using your personal information, except to deliver these services to the Department of Housing, and they must maintain the confidentiality of your information.
The Department of Housing does not use sensitive personal information such as race, religion or political affiliation, and also does not disclose it without your explicit permission.
The Department of Housing monitors the websites and web browsers that our clients visit in the Department of Housing, to determine which services of the Department of Housing are the most popular.
This data is used to provide customised content and marketing in the Department of Housing to clients whose behaviour indicates that they are interested in a particular field.
The Department of Housing’s websites will only disclose your personal information without notice if it is required by law, or if convinced that such actions are needed: (a) to comply with the stipulations of the law or to comply with legal documents that were served to the Department of Housing or the website; (b) to protect and defend the rights of property of the Department of Housing; and (c) to act in urgent circumstances to protect the personal safety of users of the Department of Housing or the public.
Use of Cookies
The Department of Housing’s website uses “cookies” to help you personalise your online experience.
A cookie is a text file that is placed on your hard drive by a website server.
Cookies can’t be used to run programs or to place viruses in your computer.
Cookies are allocated to you exclusively and can only be read by a web server in the domain that issued the cookie to you.
One of the primary goals of cookies is to provide a convenience facility to save you time.
The goal of a cookie is to tell your web server that you have returned to a particular page.
For example, if you personalised the pages of the Department of Housing or registered with a website or service of the Department of Housing, a cookie would help to recall your particular information at a future visit.
It simplifies the process of recording your personal information, such as account addresses, forwarding addresses and so on.
When you return to the same website of the Department of Housing, the information you previously provided can be recalled so you can easily use the Department of Housing’s features you modified.
You have the ability to accept or reject cookies.
Most web browsers accept cookies automatically, but you can usually change your browser settings to reject cookies, if you prefer.
If you decide to reject cookies, you might not fully experience the interactive features of the Department of Housing’s services or websites that you visit.
Security of your Personal Information
The Department of Housing safeguards your personal information against unauthorised access, use or disclosure.
The Department of Housing safeguards the personal identifiable information you provide on computer servers in a controlled, safe environment protected against unauthorised access, use or disclosure.
When personal information (such as a credit card number) is sent to other websites, it is protected by the use of encoding, for example the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol.
Changes to this Statement 
The Department of Housing will update this Statement of Privacy from time to time to reflect company and client feedback.
The Department of Housing encourages you to review this statement periodically to be informed about how the Department of Housing protects your information. 
Contact information
The Department of Housing welcomes your comments on this Privacy Statement.
If you believe that the Department of Housing is not keeping to this statement, please contact the Department of Housing at webmaster@kznhousing.gov.za
We will make commercially reasonable attempts to immediately determine and fix the problem.
<Doc05>
Premier Ebrahim Rasool’s Speech at the Matric Celebration Function
We are here today to congratulate our top matriculants.
To them we say: Well done! We are proud of you, the province and country are proud of you, your parents are proud of you, and most important of all, you should be proud of yourselves.
The reason why we talk about pride at a moment like this is to acknowledge the fact that a moment of achievement arises from a longer period of difficulty and sacrifice, that today represents a moment of clarity from circumstances that could be best described as complex.
Matric is complex.
Over the past ten years we’ve had to shift the entire education system from its apartheid orientation.
We’ve mostly succeeded regarding more integration, a single curriculum and exam, larger numbers of those who write matric and pass, and an awareness that education serves more than just individual needs – the entire economy depends on the set of skills given by the education system.
Matric is indeed complex.
Our leaders who have gathered here at Leeuwenhof are undoubtedly the best we have, those who performed the best, and those who deserve all the praise this province can give.
But we also think of the 71% of the population older than 20 years who didn’t complete secondary education, the nearly half of the 80 000 who started Grade 1 twelve years ago that didn’t even write exams in 2004 because they had dropped out along the way, and the many who wrote, but owing to subject and degree choices, don’t have matriculation certificates that can be absorbed by the economy or tertiary education.
Matric is made even more complex by the fact that you are our display windows.
The nation judges our future by your accomplishment.
They base their optimism on your well-being.
They base their hope for the future on our investment in the education system that leads to this moment of celebration.
And yes, the majority of both the national and the provincial budget goes to education.
Just this year, to keep the services of 2 000 educators, we had to divert money from other provincial functions to education.
We need to increase our investment in poorer schools so that the quality of education can be felt in increasing numbers, through the improved belief in the future in every township school.
Most important, Minister Dugmore and Superintendent-General Swartz, is that we have one chance to come up with a Human Resources strategy to justify all this investing.
We need to produce matriculants who are strong in their values, excellent in their results, relevant for the economy, loyal to their society and beneficial for humanity.
That is what we are here to celebrate today.
You represent this hope while we build our Home for All.
We celebrate your achievements because you made sacrifices and worked hard, your parents made sacrifices and kept you in school, and your society made sacrifices and invested in your future.
Many doubt the value of celebrating matric achievements because of its complexity and the fact that it may still reflect the remnants of an apartheid system.
Only you can overcome this by actively and consciously being committed to building a Home for All, one that is non-racial and more equal.
This needs to be reflected in all the choices you make from now on.
Thus far you’ve only had to choose how hard you wanted to work.
Your matriculation certificate enables you and forces you to make decisions and choices about the type of person you want to be and the kind of life you want to lead.
Congratulations and best wishes.
<Doc06>
The Management Mission of the Government Communication Project for 2010 is to:
facilitate the realisation of the strategic communication goals for the first Africa FIFA World Cup
make the most of this unique event to express and build unity and pride among South Africans
inspire our youth
market our country to the world
create a communication climate that helps to use this chance to speed up development and increase opportunities
Build African solidarity.
This will be done by:
providing leadership and coordination for government communication for the 2010 World Cup
forming a national partnership of public and private communicators in different disciplines, as well as allying with communicators on the continent and in the diaspora, so that the country and continent can both benefit from this communication opportunity of a lifetime 
Undertaking key government communication projects for the 2010 Soccer World Cup.
<Doc07>
National Road Traffic Regulations Amended to improve road safety
POLOKWANE: The National Road Traffic Regulations were amended.
It was called the Seventeenth Amendment and it came into effect on publication.
The Department of Roads and Transport informs motorists about the amendments, namely:
New motor vehicles registered after 01 August 2010 must have number plates that are attached with rivets or screws.
If it cannot be fastened to the vehicle, it must be fastened in a clamp that conforms to SANS 973.
This amendment will lead to a decrease in crime and road traffic offences by motorists who easily remove the number plates to avoid being found.
It will not be easy to remove and replace the number plate after a crime has been committed, because this will always involve additional costs.
The number plate is made from aluminium, which will make it difficult to burn beyond recognition at an accident scene.
Starting from 1 February 2011, people obtaining driver’s licences for a code C, C1 or EC1 driver’s licence will not be allowed to drive a motor vehicle requiring a code B or code EB licence (according to the old dispensation, a person with a code 10, 11, 13 or 14 licence cannot drive a vehicle requiring a code 08 licence).
This will apply to new licence holders.
Many learner drivers are applying for heavy vehicle driving licences instead of light motor vehicles so they can, for example, avoid parallel parking tests.
The reality is that after they have obtained their heavy motor vehicle licences, they drive light motor vehicles with driving controls they are not familiar with, and then get into accidents.
It is expected that all drivers who have obtained heavy motor vehicle driving licences must own Professional Driver’s Permits, but the statistics indicate something else.
It proves the fact that the applicants should have been given the driving licences for light motor vehicles, and not for heavy motor vehicles.
Directional stability control devices for mini- and midi-buses are brought in through a certification process that forms part of the roadworthiness test.
This applies to all mini- and midi-buses, and not just to newly manufactured vehicles.
The registered owner of a motor vehicle or proxy has to submit a correctly filled in form DSCD to the testing station.
A directional stability control device is a device that prevents a tyre separating from the hub when the tyre bursts while the vehicle is moving.
An amendment to Regulation 332 was published, and lists the probative breathalysers that can be used to collect probative breath samples, and the certificate issued by the manufacturer or vendor can be used as evidence in cases by simply submitting it.
This amendment is intended to address the issue raised regarding the legality of the breathalysers in accordance with article 65(7) of the National Road Traffic Act, 1996, and complies with SABS 1793 and can be used to determine the concentration of alcohol in breath.
The following is the prescribed equipment:
“It is more suitable during this festive season since it gives an additional boost to our efforts to combat drunken driving on our roads”, says the MEC of Roads and Transport, Pinky Kekana.
<Doc08>
Antenatal (Prenatal) Health Services
Pregnant girls and women are referred to maternity services or midwife obstetric units (MOUs) in urban areas, and satellite or permanent clinics in the rural areas.
MOUs are maternity units that are run by midwives in the community for patients of basic health services.
It is advised that expecting mothers should book their first visit to the clinic before 20 weeks or as soon as possible thereafter.
The mother receives a complete initial assessment and counselling when she comes for her first antenatal visit, also known as the discussion visit.
The pregnancy is monitored by regular follow-up visits.
The mother’s health is also monitored thoroughly.
She will be weighed, her blood pressure will be measured and her urine will be tested.
If there are no complications, she has to return after two weeks for her first follow-up visit and for the results of the tests that were done during the discussion visit.
Thereafter she has to go to the clinic every six weeks till 28 weeks; then at 34 weeks, and thereafter as indicated by the clinic/VVE staff (frequency of visits may vary from area to area).
Pregnant mothers are examined for possible risks to their health and the health of the foetus.
Teenage girls and women older than 35 years who are pregnant, are considered to be high-risk cases.
This means there is a greater likelihood of complications during pregnancy and birth.
Pregnant women could also be considered high-risk cases if they have high blood pressure, a history of genetic disorders or a multiple pregnancy, and if they previously underwent surgery such as a caesarean section.
Mothers who are diagnosed as high-risk are referred upwards to the outpatient antenatal clinics at hospitals on secondary or tertiary level, where further examinations and screening tests are done.
Mothers with high-risk pregnancies are advised to visit outpatient antenatal clinics as often as needed.
If you are paying a first visit to a health facility, you will be asked to fill in a form and a file will be opened.
Bring your ID book, any medication you are taking, and a clinic or hospital card, if you were previously registered at the facility.
Low-risk pregnancies are handled at VVEs (birth units that are run by midwives in the community for primary healthcare patients) in urban areas, and satellite or permanent clinics in the rural areas.
High-risk pregnancies are handled by outpatient clinics at urban and rural district hospitals and tertiary hospitals.
<Doc09>
Integrated Nutrition Programme
The Integrated Nutrition Programme (INP) is aimed at improving the nutrition status of all people in the Western Cape province.
This program has several aspects.
What is malnutrition?
Malnutrition is a serious problem in South Africa and is one of the largest contributors to child disease and death.
Approximately 30% of South African children show impaired growth due to a lack of sufficient nutrition in the early years of their lives.
Insufficient food intake, disease and psychosocial stress/trauma are the main immediate causes of malnutrition.
Poverty and lack of resources are basic factors that contribute to malnutrition.
The INP is trying to confront this silent epidemic in a number of ways.
Supplements for children
At primary healthcare level, children who are examined and identified as undernourished (this includes children and adults who are HIV-positive and with tuberculosis), receive nutritional supplements, including enriched maize flour and a high-energy drink.
Supplements are given according to criteria to identified clients.
Health workers also provide counselling, information and education about healthy diets and the healthiest ways to prepare food.
Dieticians also provide specialised services to the community.
Breastfeeding
To help combat malnutrition in early childhood, health workers encourage women to give their children only breast milk till six months of age, and then to continue with breastfeeding as well as the introduction of suitable supplemental nutrition, till the child is two years old.
Other nutrition options will be discussed with mothers who are HIV-positive.
Vredendal Hospital and Groote Schuur Maternity Centre are baby-friendly hospitals in accordance with the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative.
Growth monitoring
All children are weighed regularly as part of the growth monitoring programme, a sensitive indicator of whether the child is growing.
The weight is recorded on the Road to Health card.
Underlying causes of weight loss are examined, such as contagious diseases, insufficient food at home and child neglect.
Contagious diseases play a major role in undernourishment and these diseases are treated at primary healthcare level.
There is a close connection between cases of diarrhoea and bad environmental hygiene (sanitation and water supply) and undernourishment or malnourishment of a baby, which then makes him/her more susceptible to serious and prolonged diarrhoea. 
Poverty Alleviation
Poverty-stricken households are identified and referred to one of the government’s poverty alleviation programmes.
Households’ food security are treated intersectorally and suitable interventions and support are provided.
Vitamin supplements
The management of micronutrient deficiencies is a major part of the service.
Micronutrients are natural substances like vitamins and minerals that are found in small amounts in food and are very important for the maintenance of good health.
The INP provides supplementary vitamin A to targeted children.
Children with a vitamin A deficiency lose weight, do not grow properly, and are more likely to get infections and die of them.
A deficiency in vitamin A also damages the eye and is one of the main causes of blindness among children.
Children with low birth weight receive vitamin A capsules, which strengthens the immune system and helps with the children’s developmental growth.
Babies of 6–11 months receive a single dose of vitamin A (100 000 IE) to prevent any disease.
Children of 12 months to five years receive a single dose of 200 000 IE at 12 months, and then 200 000 IE every six months till five years of age.
Additional doses of vitamin A are given to children who are seriously malnourished or who constantly have contagious diseases like diarrhoea, measles or HIV infection.
Deworming
Weight loss in children could also be caused by worm infestation, and this can be treated with deworming medication at the clinic.
Nutritional advice for specific conditions
Nutritional education, information and counselling are provided on all levels to people who had strokes or have hypertension, high blood pressure, diabetes, HIV/Aids or tuberculosis.
Primary School Nutrition Programme
The Primary School Nutrition Programme is available at specifically identified sub-economic schools.
These schemes are currently being managed by the Department of Education.
The provincial government aims to reach 125 000 children in 847 primary schools in the province with its school nutrition project by 2004.
Nutrition in institutions
The INP also contributes to the institutional care of clients through food service systems for the provision of balanced nutrition.
Instructions:
New visitors to the clinic/secondary hospital will be asked to complete a form, and a file will be opened for the patient.
Bring your ID book along.
A referral letter from the clinic is needed when you visit a hospital.
Hospitals will want to see your latest payslip/income assessment (IRP5).
Bring your hospital card along if you were previously registered at the hospital.
<Doc10>
Speech by the Deputy Minister of Public Works, Mr Ntopile Kganyago, LP, at the first public announcement of the Tshwane City Centre Programme, South African Reserve Bank Building, Tshwane 
Other senior government officials
Ladies and gentlemen of the media
Prominent guests
The decision the Cabinet made in 1997 to encourage national state departments to make the City Centre of Tshwane their permanent home, was a sign of great vision, then and now.
The outcome is a well-orchestrated plan to link the renewal of our cities to the government’s call for city renewal and other special development initiatives aimed at promoting a city management ethos that is responsive to human rights, supportive habitats, economic development and social cohesion.
While we are laying the first stone to realise that vision, we’re also celebrating the journey we have travelled thus far.
Intensive consultations, often characterised by equally intensive debate on the needs and options for state departments regarding their physical environment, didn’t drag all of us away from some of the fundamental aims, namely to improve the physical work environment of state departments in the city centre of Tshwane 
At the same time, we also have to contribute to the renewal and rejuvenation of the city centre.
Other aims, by no means less important, include a campaign to attract private sector investment, developing the image of Tshwane as an important capital city in Africa, and promoting black economic empowerment.
The state is the largest property owner and one of the leading investors in the economic life of the local government, especially in the Johannesburg and Tshwane metros in Gauteng.
Departments need functional office accommodation to comply with their responsibilities of public service delivery to carry out their mandates.
It is common knowledge that most government buildings fall within the good-to-fair category, instead of excellent, when it comes to their condition.
Renovation, upgrading and repairs will come to the fore of capital expenditure and will contribute to the SEB component of the Tshwane City Centre Project.
The national government, through the Department of Public Works, spends more than two milliard rand (R2 milliard) annually to pay for leases and other related property management rates such as property tax and services, countrywide, with both the private sector and the local government as beneficiaries.
These same stakeholders are expected to, without exception, manage the process of renewing the Tshwane city centre, possibly with the participation of Gauteng’s provincial government through their important investment projects as supported by the Gauteng Economic Development Agency (GEDA).
In the context of the Tshwane City Centre programme, hereafter known as “Re Kgabisa Tshwane” and subtitled “A Better Place to Work”, the focus falls in equal measure on the people (both the public officials and the public) and on the physical spaces where they mingle when delivering and receiving vital public services.
With the announcement of the government’s Action Programme of 2004 the President, Mr Thabo Mbeki, called on the national departments of Public Works and of Public Service and Administration to improve the physical working environment of state departments and public officials.
Public physical infrastructure is the engine of service delivery and the public officials are the fuel driving the engine and making it function faster, efficiently and effectively.
During the need-determining phase of the project, many government employees who were consulted, emphasized the importance of excellent workplaces in line with their status, and this includes both the internal and the external environments; and that’s why it is necessary to cooperate with the Tshwane metro, which is responsible for most of the city management aspects like traffic, cleanliness, safety, security and aesthetics.
I would like to use this opportunity to thank Tshwane’s management and leadership for their vision in embracing this project by promptly bringing it in line with their own Integrated Development Plans.
The Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the national Department of Public Works and the City of Tshwane metro we will enter into later today, is indeed a confirmation that we’ve found common ground from which we can work. 
It is a declaration of intent to work together on initiatives and projects to the mutual benefit of both parties.
Our message to you today is “the work has begun”, and in the next 10 years an injection of more than eight milliard rand (R8 milliard) will be made by the national government and the private sector through capital budgets, lease improvements and public–private partnerships. 
Regarding Programme Management, a Management Committee has been established between the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department of Public Works, the National Treasury and the City of Tshwane.
The Committee will, among other things, conduct the programme, monitor and supervise implementation, finalise the funding strategy, and ensure coordinated implementation.
The Department has appointed Mr Dumisani Dlamini as the Deputy Director General responsible for the entire programme management.
I thank you.
<Doc11>
Madam Speaker, the Honourable Premier, Cabinet Colleagues, Members of the House, Honoured guests, the officials from the Department of Housing, members of the media and the broad public, a hearty welcome.
These words, ladies and gentlemen, apply to South African politics, especially in the Western Cape.
Regardless of the hard work of dedicated people of this country who love progress, some people are always trying to criticise the wonderful work done by a caring government in the very short time it has been in power.
Ladies and gentlemen, many people argue about what housing actually means, but allow me to give you another interpretation. 
For me, this is not just about shelter.
It’s about people themselves accepting responsibility to maintain their common environment and to control their future.
It’s about the creation of viable communities and sustainable living environments.
It’s about prosperity in unity through partnerships between the private sector, the public sector, non-governmental organisations, but most importantly, communities.
For me, housing could best be described as a process involving planning with people and not planning for those people.
Housing in the South African context is not just a product but also a process based on democratic values for which the people of this country fought so hard.
It is a process that listens to the people, that allows people to exercise their democratic right to choose the type of housing and areas they want to build their houses in.
Consequently there is nothing so dehumanising and undemocratic as alienating people from their fundamental right to choose.
Because I am a social activist, people form the centre of my vision and strategy for delivery of housing, unlike the situation under the apartheid system.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure this afternoon to deliver to you my second budget speech as the Provincial Minister of Housing.
I am also proud that I’m delivering this speech on the evening before the 10th anniversary of our democracy.
There is concrete evidence that the government led by the ANC has achieved more in the less than 10 years of its democratic rule, than any other country in the world has ever done before.
Sisebenzile – We have done well.
Concretely put, I am proud to announce that of the 1.4 million housing opportunities the government has provided, our province provided 167 000 units in the past 9 years, which is 11% of the national pie. 
In my opinion, this is an excellent achievement by any measure.
I also want to put on record that the past year was filled with challenges, which had a negative impact on the delivery of houses in the country as a whole, but in the province in particular.
These challenges were caused by the introduction of the new policy directives and mechanisms, such as beneficiaries’ contribution of R2 479 and the introduction of the National Home Builders Registration Council Warranty Scheme for state subsidy housing.
These measures were not aimed at delaying delivery but at ensuring that our people get quality housing.
The learning curves we experience with the implementation of these policies do, however, delay delivery.
The situation was made worse by the fact that my department had no Chief Director for nine months.
This delayed progress to a great degree.
I have since appointed one, Mr Seth Maqethuka, who was born and raised in Cape Town and has experience in national and local governance, and I want to congratulate and welcome him, even though I have done so already.
In spite of all these challenges and restrictions, I am proud to announce to you that my department has succeeded in spending R348 million, representing 92% of the housing subsidy for the Western Cape.
Some of the provinces have scarcely spent 25% of their budgets.
This has led to nearly 25 000 housing subsidies being approved.
An increasing number of poor families will get a chance to enjoy the fruits of our democracy.
That, ladies and gentlemen, represents a significant increase of 3 000 units compared to the previous year.
In this regard I would like to acknowledge the important role that municipalities have in our province.
Without their dedication and excellent work, we wouldn’t have been able to spend this much.
In the same breath I would also like to congratulate the City of Cape Town on spending 70% of our budget.
I also can’t forget to thank my staff, for their hard work and contribution to our vision of housing for the nation.
Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn’t be true to my conscience if I just painted a rose-coloured picture of the housing delivery process.
There are still gaps in our delivery process.
That’s why we need to improve in the following hard-pressed areas:
Most of our houses do not yet comply with the policy shift from quantity to quality.
We still have to change the process of delivering housing from providing shelter to creating sustainable human settlements.
We need to change the participation of beneficiaries from passive to active participation.
We need to change our people’s way of thinking so they can start to view government-subsidised housing not simply as products but as resources.
<Doc12>
SECTOR POLICING WORKS
Both mother and child were greatly relieved when 16-day-old James Busakwe was reunited with his biological mother on 7 April 2006.
The ordeal started when baby James’ mother arrived at the Klerksdorp hospital on 6 April to visit her son, and nursing staff realised that the child had the previous day been given to another woman who had said that she was the child’s mother.
Nurses informed the Kanana police station as soon as the discovery was made, since the woman who had taken James had given an address in Kanana.
The address was investigated, but without success.
No one matching the name or description of the woman was known at this address.
On the evening of 6 April the Kanana CPF held a meeting.
The acting station commissioner informed the meeting of the kidnapped child and asked that everyone keep their eyes and ears open.
At approximately 23:00 that night, one of the community members called the police with information that a woman living in his sector, and who was not known to be pregnant, suddenly had a baby boy with her.
The police followed up on the information and did indeed find the woman and child.
Hospital personnel were called and immediately identified the child, as well as the woman who kidnapped him from the hospital.
Several pieces of evidence, including the hospital’s plastic armband, were found in the suspect’s house.
The woman was arrested and the unharmed child was taken back to hospital, where he was reunited with his real mother the following morning.
The actions of the members of the community who helped to find the child should be praised, because they show the value of community policing.
The value of sector policing when correctly implemented and maintained, should never be underestimated.
Keep up the good work, Kanana CPF!
Dear Madam
I suppose that it was an accident or maybe luck that I had to visit your police station in Mondeor, where I saw your SAPS magazine.
I suppose it is published once a month, and I found it very interesting reading material.
My wife and I have just started a new business, and we would like to invite all or any of your staff to drop in for a free cup of coffee or tea when they’re in our area, and hopefully we’ll have a biscuit or two for them too.
I am sure you understand that it is not easy to start up a new business, and that it takes a lot of work and capital.
However, we are still of the opinion that the police and all other sections of law enforcement are very important to all South African citizens.
This is just something small we want to offer to you all to thank you for your sacrifice to ensure that we, the citizens, can go on with our daily lives. 
We look forward to hearing from you, or even better, to see some of your staff in uniform when they drop in on our little shop and we get to know them better.
Again, we thank you, the law enforcement personnel of South Africa, for all your hard work and dedication to keep South Africa safe.
Short, factual letters can be sent via fax or email to the Editor. 
We retain the right to edit or shorten letters.
<Doc13>
A CALL TO ACTION 
On 14 June 2007 one of the articles on the SAPS Journal Online (www.sapsjournalonline.co.za) described how two police officers of the Welkom vehicle identification section were arrested for corruption and fraud.
Reportedly these two, a superintendent and an inspector, sold vehicles that were recovered by the police, for their own profit.
Both suspects appeared in court on 12 June and the case was postponed to 21 August 2007.
One day later, on 15 June 2007, a News24 headline declared: “Two cops caught for armed robbery”
This time it was a student constable and an inspector who had apparently stolen money, pants, and a shirt from a clothing store in Marble Hall.
Corruption in the police has to be stopped.
Most of us are honest, hard-working citizens, but a few police officers have no respect for themselves, their uniform, or the Police’s Code of Conduct.
It is high time we free the SAPS, once and for all, of all these negative elements.
And now you can help to get rid of the corrupt members of the police by exposing them on a new crime line.
Anonymously!
If you suspect that one of your colleagues is planning something or if you know of someone else, whether a police officer, family member, colleague, neighbour or stranger, who is involved or intends to become involved in criminal activities, you just need to send an SMS to 32211.
This is the new national crime number that Primedia recently unveiled in Sandton.
You can either send an SMS to 32211 (at a cost of R1 each) or go to www.crime-line.co.za.
Trained data capturers are waiting to pass the information to the police, who will immediately respond to it!
The best part is that you will stay anonymous.
Now you have the power to help fight crime, without exposing yourself to danger.
The Primedia initiative promises that you will not be involved.
Yusuf Abramjee, Primedia’s Anti-Crime Project Coordinator, says: “We don’t want your name or address unless you willingly give it to us, and no statements or court appearances are necessary.
All we want is information about criminals so the police can respond to it.”
This new national multimillion-rand anti-crime campaign was launched by Primedia on 7 June 2007 in Sandton.
It is based on the Crime Stoppers International system.
Crime Stoppers started in September 1976 in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
It was a partnership between the community, the media, and law enforcement agencies and was intended to combat crime and keep residents safe.
Today there are approximately 1 200 Crime Stopper programmes worldwide running in 20 countries and using information supplied by the community to help solve crimes.
According to the CEO of Primedia Ltd, Mr William Kirsh, these programmes have already helped arrest 600 000 criminals!
What every police officer needs to know about this new anti-crime campaign is that it has the full support of the Minister of Safety and Security, Mr Charles Nqakula, and the National Commissioner of the SAPS, commissioner Jackie Selebi.
Commissioner Selebi has promised that “we as an organisation will do everything in our power to make this project work”.
The question is, what are you going to do about it?
Everyone’s total support is needed, not just to act promptly if you receive information from the crime call centre, but also to market this initiative wherever you can.
Tell the people, the CPFs, the schools, your family and friends of this initiative.
Ensure they understand that the campaign promises that they will not be involved, that they will stay anonymous, no matter what happens.
And remember, this isn’t an emergency number.
People still need to report emergencies to 10111 or their nearest police station.
With this anti-crime campaign the media are reaching a hand out to the police.
They want to help us make South Africa a safer place for all.
At the unveiling of the crime line initiative, John Robbie, presenter of Talk Radio 702’s morning programme, presented the SAPS with 65 ID instrumentation machines.
Mr Robbie recently made a call on air to listeners to commit themselves to these ID instrumentation machines.
The machines’ retailer, Face Technology, is also doing its part and has lowered the price of the machines to cost price, which enables companies that initially promised enough money for one machine, to buy two.
Primedia and John Robbie aren’t the only ones actively helping the police in the fight against crime.
Read any of the success stories in the SAPS Journal or on the SAPS Journal Online and you will see how many cases have been solved with the help of community members.
With this new anti-crime campaign the criminals, including the few corrupt individuals in the service, can now be certain of one thing ... their days are numbered.
<Doc14>
ETQA service provider accreditation
South African Government Services
Application to an ETQA for accreditation as a provider of education and training.
Description
The regulations applicable to the Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) bodies under the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), require that providers of education and training apply at an ETQA body for accreditation.
To become accredited, providers of education and training have to be registered in accordance with the relevant legislation.
Legislation regarding Higher Education and Further Education requires all providers of education and training offering complete qualifications, to be registered with the Department of Education.
The provider of education and training must offer unit standards and/or qualifications that fall within the primary focus area of the Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) body of the Sector Authority for Education and Training (SETA) or professional body.
Requirements for accreditation:
* The requirements for accreditation are included in the document entitled “Criteria and Guidelines for Providers”, and is available on the SAQA website.
* The programme (and/or assessments) presented by the provider of education and training, leads to unit standards and/or qualifications that are registered on the National Qualification Framework (NQF).
* The curriculum (design, content and learning material) are in line with the unit standards and/or qualifications.
* There are appropriately qualified staff (facilitators and registered assessors).
* The learners have access to sufficient learning support services.
* The assessment methods and instruments used to measure the requirements for the unit standard and/or qualification are fair, valid, and reliable and are used to promote learning. 
Steps to follow
* Send a letter of your intent to become accredited as a provider of education and training to the relevant ETQA body.
* Present a self-evaluation and application form to the ETQA body.
* If accreditation is not granted to you and you feel that the process was unfair, you have the right to appeal.
* A list of ETQA bodies and contact details is available on the SAQA website.
It could take up to 6 months.
The service is free.
Forms to be filled in.
Application forms for provider accreditation and related documentation can be obtained from the relevant ETQA body.
Contact details  – Please pick one option
