<Doc01>
South African Social Security Agency 
Customer Care Charter
Welcome to our Customer Charter
We want you as our customer, to evaluate us on the standard of our service as presented in this charter.
We will treat you with respect and give you high-quality services that are aligned to the BATHO PELE principles.
As part of our obligation, we commit to giving you services of a high standard, as well as precise information, guidance and support on all our services.
The aim of this Charter
This charter tells you about the standard of service you can expect from the South African Social Security Agency (SASSA).
SASSA is the branch of governmental that oversees the distribution of social grants to the people of South Africa.
We commit
To managing and delivering good quality social security services, in an affordable and effective manner, by implementing good practices.
What can you expect from us?
Advancement and protection of people’s self-esteem, confidentiality and integrity, as well as openness, equality and a lack of discrimination.
The South African Social Security Agency commits to doing the following:
We will provide you with information and advice on all the grants that you may apply for.
We will refer you to other centres that you may need to visit to obtain services.
We will help you to complete our forms and apply for the grant.
We will keep the information you give us confidential.
We will abide by the requirements of the South African Constitution, as well as the codes of conduct and the laws that govern the provision of public services.
We will use the language of your choice when serving you.
We will work hand in hand with our employers and other stakeholders.
We will do everything in our power to improve our services so that we meet your expectations.
To contact us
When you contact us either in person, by phone, letter or email, the following will happen:
The customer care agent you are dealing with will introduce him/herself to you.
We will respond immediately to questions put to us telephonically or face to face.
If we are unable answer your question immediately, we will give you reasons and tell you when you can expect an answer.
We will give you a reference number so that you are able to follow up on your query.
We will respond to every communication you direct to us and will deal with the issue within 7 days.
If we fail to provide satisfactory answers within 7 days, we will give you with reasons and inform you when you can expect an answer.
We will endeavour to deal with your complaints within 21 days.
When you phone us, we will respond immediately using an official language of your choice.
We will respond in writing about all the decisions that are taken concerning your grant.
At our SASSA offices
When you visit our offices, the help desk staff will attend to you as soon as possible.
All our offices are open between 08h00 and 16h30, from Monday to Thursday, and on Friday from 08h00 to 16h00.
At our offices and payment areas you will have access to the following:
Privacy
Comfortable waiting areas
Toilets
Health care services, if you tell us prior to your visit that you require these services.
We will come to you, if you cannot come to our offices due to medical conditions. 
You may call us and we will arrange to visit you at home.
Handling your social grant application
Your social grant application will be dealt with on the day it is submitted to us.
We will then verify that you qualify for the grant.
We set ourselves deadlines when dealing with your application and we pay your grant within 90 days.
If your application is rejected, suspended or cancelled, we will advise you on your right to apply to have the decision reviewed.
Decision-making
If you disagree with any decision we make about your grant application, or you wish to have more information about the decision, you can do the following:
You can ask for further explanation concerning the decision; we will work with you in handling your request.
You may request to have our decision reviewed within 30 days of the date written in the letter.
You are free to access your file to retrieve any information that you may need.
What you have to do
You must provide us with the following:
Your correct postal and residential address.
Any changes to your personal details such as the money you are receiving, address, medical condition etc.
Reliable, honest and complete information or explanations at all times.
Timely responses to all our letters, including reviews and requests for information.
Unhappy with our services?
If you are not happy with our services because:
We took too long to deal with your grant application and/or you did not receive your payment on time.
The conduct of one of our officials made you unhappy.
Our staff made mistakes on your application or they gave you wrong advice.
Intentional/unintentional mistakes on our side.
Let us know and we will correct any mistake we have made immediately.
If you have queries, please write to us or phone us and ask to be transferred to our customer care unit.
We will discuss our services with you.
We would like to hear your views on our services.
We will use the information you give us to improve our services.
Please send us your feedback using any of the following:
Accessing our toll-free number: 0800 601 011
Completing the card that is available for customer comments at our offices and payment areas.
Visiting our website: www. sassa.gov.za
Visiting one of our contact centres.
(District, local, service and payment areas)
Send us your views in writing or submit them to any of our offices.
Questions or comments about this charter
If you need more information about this charter, visit one of our offices.
You may request a copy of this charter in Braille, on tape or on CD.
This charter will come into effect on 01/04/2007 and it will be reviewed on a yearly basis on the basis of your comments. 
<Doc02>
The Department of Statistics in South Africa - News
Inside the Department of Statistics: The need for statistics will increase as democratic rule entrenches itself
This article was first published by the Business Report on 05 August 2004.
Last week I attended an institutional advisory board meeting at the East African Statistical Training Centre in Tanzania, where l had the opportunity to attend the 39th graduation of this centre in which five statistics staff from South Africa were participating.
The training of Statistics staff from South Africa is a result of the love the organisation has.
After being appointed to the position of Chief Statistician in South Africa, I collaborated with the Council of Statistics to present an urgent programme involving searching for institutions that provide official data training.
We identified two institutions: the training centre in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and the Institute of Statistics and Economics in Uganda.
This centre was established in 1965 by the UN Economics Commission, the United Services Organisation of East Africa and the UN Development Programme.
In 1977, the Tanzanian government took over the management of this centre and increased the number of African countries that are assisted by this centre to 13.
The centre in Uganda was established in 1969, under the auspices of Makerere University.
Its aim was to provide high-level training in the fields of Statistics and Economics.
In the past three years, Stats SA has been sending its staff to these centres.
The first group graduated last year.
Since their return, they have shown great improvement in the way they do their work and some have even been promoted to management positions.
Although that is the case, statistics in SA is facing new challenges.
The need for statistical information has grown drastically at all three government levels.
Furthermore, people who are trained in gathering and using statistical information at municipal level are becoming crucial.
In order to resolve this need, we have to train about 2000 people per year. 
The Tanzanian training centre and the Institute of Statistics and Economics in Uganda cannot handle this huge responsibility.
When the Finance Minister Trevor Manuel opened the Statistics Conference in South Africa last year, he asked South African universities to deal with the skills shortage problem in statistics in a bid to help the government in making decisions that are supported by statistical information.
Statistics South Africa has initiated discussions with universities with the aim of starting this training.
Although that is the case, there is no university that offers official statistics courses.
Statistics South Africa plans to establish a statistics training institution in the near future that will focus on official statistics training for internal staff and those from other departments.
The national statistics testing programme will enhance the need to establish statistics units in various government units and this will increase the need for trained statisticians with statistical knowledge.
Although that is the case, the development of statistical capacity is more than the governmental need for precise information.
Statistics is central to the democratic government.
At the beginning of the 20th century, HG Wells put forward the view that in the near future citizens would need to know statistics just as much as being able to read and write.
Public statistics is a recent cultural achievement that has progressed as a result of the democratic government. 
With regard to Africa, where democracy is still young, we will see an increase in the demand for public statistics as democracy embeds itself.
It is the duty of statisticians to protect the principles of democracy and of transparency, equality and access, meaning they are the guardians of good conduct. 
What is important in the campaign is to increase statistics skills and establish the institutions that are required for the expanded programme and that are quick in training people in official data.
Pali Lehohla is chief-statistician and head of Stats SA.
For more information on Statistics South Africa and what it does, visit: www.statssa.gov.za or phone this number: (012) 310-8600
<Doc03>
16 Days of Activism: did you know?
From 1994, the government has developed a bill to correct the wrongs done to women and children.
The Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, which was passed in 2000, was established to ensure that everyone enjoys their Constitutional rights.
This Act guarantees that women enjoy rights and freedoms equally, with the aim of correcting the wrongs of the past.
The Employment Equity Act of 1998 safeguards against discrimination at work, and manages your employment and earnings in the workplace that were created by apartheid laws.
It encourages a fair representation of women and other previously marginalised people at all levels of the private and public sectors.
The Maintenance Act of 1998 safeguards the rights of the child, ensuring that the child lives a life that is up to standard physically, mentally, spiritually and socially.
This Act ensures that maintenance money is collected from parents or guardians who are responsible for taking care of the child financially. 
The Domestic Violence Act of 1998 was developed to ensure that victims of violence are adequately protected from domestic violence.
Women who have been victims of violence can now access legal help that ensures their safety.
The Children's Act of 2005 and the Children's Amendment Act of 2007 were passed to do the following among other things: to protect a child from abuse, abandonment, ill-treatment and humiliation.
The government employs and supports many intervention programmes that protect the dignity of women and children. 
The Children's Rights Charter is being reviewed and updated at the moment to include new challenges, such as the use of children in pornography and exposing children to content that is sexual in nature. 
The government has responded to the challenge of children being forced to marry adults under the guise of a tradition called “Ukuthwala”.
The government is committed to making sure that that cultural and other practices are carried out in line with the Constitution and other relevant laws.
New specialised police units are being established and these will focus on domestic and sexual crimes and other offences that are committed against women and children.
The establishment of these specialised units will rely on and include the expertise needed to improve the management and successful prosecution of crimes against women and children.
At present, there are 17 protection centres, called Thuthuzela Care Centres, nationwide and these have been established in communities that are facing high rates of sexual violence.
These Centres offer health and welfare services and start the processes of reporting and prosecuting in a dignified and caring manner, being carried out by experts who are trained to do this. 
The Criminal Asset Recovery Fund Programme was used to fund 19 projects for helping victims. 
A Directory of Services for Victims of Violence and Crime was developed which contains more than 1 500 services offered by government and social organisations in all provinces.
This directory assists people to access services that are available in their area.
Victim-friendly centres have been established in police stations which deal with offences committed between family members or people who know each other.
Dedicated Sexual Offences Courts have been established.
The Domestic Violence Act intends to establish shelters for victims of abuse.
At present, there are 96 shelters for abuse victims in South Africa, up from 39 in 2001.
The rights in the Victims Charter are being reviewed in terms of both the victims of crime and the judicial system.
This Charter includes the Standards on Services for Victims of Crime, which sets out a legal agenda for victims so as to guarantee their rights in respect of the services they can expect from the judicial system.
The timeframe for dealing with crimes in the Sexual Offences Court decreased from 285 to 182 days.
This Charter is a requirement of the South African Government to meet its international commitments by aligning with the United Nations (UN) Supporting Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power.
International cooperation in dealing with crimes against women and children
South Africa sent its report on the progress made so far on the Agreement to Eliminate Discrimination against Women to the UN CEDAW committee.
South Africa held a Southern African Development Community (SADC) Ministerial Meeting (October 09) with the aim of concluding the 10-year regional strategic plan on the trafficking of people, especially women and children.
The SADC Protocol on Gender and Development states that, by 2015, SADC Member States should have put in place laws that fight against sexual harassment.
South Africa hosted the Gender Justice Regional Summit (from 9 to 10 November 2009), which brought together representatives from African countries to discuss experiences and make commitments to use all the knowledge and expertise available to ensure success in eliminating gender-based violence.
Do not ignore it; do something against abuse.
<Doc04>
Privacy Statement
The Department of Housing commits to protecting your privacy and promoting technology that provides you with a powerful and safe online experience.
This Privacy Statement functions on the Department of Housing’s website which oversees the collection of data and its use.
By using the Department of Housing website, you agree to the use of data as explained in this statement.
Collection of personal information
The Department of Housing collects personal information, such as your email address, name, work or home address, and phone number.
The Department of Housing also collects anonymous information; that is not unique to you, such as ZIP code, age, gender, preferences and favourite things.
There is also information on your computer hardware or software that is collected automatically by the Department of Housing.
This information includes your address, IP, the type of browser you use, domain names, log-in times and website address.
This information is used by the Department of Housing to determine how the service functions, to keep the service in good condition, and to maintain general statistics on the use of the Department of Housing website.
Please note that personal information or sensitive data that may reveal your identity on the Department of Housing public information boards may be collected and used by other people.
Know this: The Department of Housing does not access your private communications on the internet.
The Department of Housing encourages you to review the privacy statements of websites that you choose to contact outside the Department of Housing, so that you may understand the way those websites collect your information, the way they use it and how they share your information with others.
The Department of Housing will not accept liability for privacy statements or other information contained on websites outside the Department of Housing and the Department of Family Housing.
Using your personal information
The Department of Housing collects and uses your personal information on how you use the Department of Housing website as well as to bring you the services you requested.
The Department of Housing also uses personal information to inform you of products or other services that you can access from the Department of Housing website and its partners.
The Department of Housing may also contact you through surveys to get your views on their current services or other new services that may be provided.
The Department of Housing does not sell or lease customer lists to other people.
The Department of Housing may contact you now and again on behalf of its business associates regarding other products that may be of value to you.
In such instances, your unique personal information (email, name, address, phone number) will not be passed on to other people.
Furthermore, the Department of Housing may share data with other trusted service providers in order to help it conduct statistical analysis, send you emails, support you as a customer or arrange deliveries.
All these people are permitted to use your personal information without providing the Department of Housing with services, and they are expected to keep your information private.
The Department of Housing does not use or divulge your personal information such as your nationality, religion or membership of political parties without your explicit consent.
The Department of Housing knows which websites and pages are frequented by its customers in the Department of Housing, so as to determine which services are favourites.
This data is used to bring to you content or to advertise directly to those customers whose behaviour shows that they have an interest in something particular in the Department of Housing.
The Department of Housing website will disclose your personal information without informing you first if required to do so by law, or with good intentions if it is deemed necessary: (a) to issue a legal message or to direct the legal processes that govern the Department of Housing or their site; (b) to protect the rights or properties of the Department of Housing; (c) to take action against oppressive situations with the aim of protecting the personal safety of users of the Department of Housing website or to protect the public.
How cookies are used
The Department of Housing uses “cookies” so that the internet is able to identify you when you are using it.
A cookie is a text file that is stored on a disk by the server of a webpage.
Cookies cannot be used to run programs or to transfer viruses to your computer.
Cookies are distributed to you in different ways; the only the web server that can read them is the domain that sent that cookie.
One of the main aims of cookies is to provide you with a unique identity character that is beneficial and saves you time.
The role of a cookie is to notify the web server that you have returned to the same page.
For example, when you are creating a page on the Department of Housing website so that it may identify you or accessing the Department of Housing services, the cookie helps the Department of Housing to retain some of your information for your next visit.
This makes the process of recording your personal information, such as your contact address where items can be sent, easy.
When you return to the Department of Housing website, the information you provided previously may appear; as such, you may similarly be able to use the Department of Housing features that you created.
You can accept or reject cookies.
May web browsers accept cookies automatically, but you can change the browser settings so that you may reject them if you want to.
If you choose to reject cookies, it is possible that you may not be able to use the Department of Housing features fully, or those of other websites you visit. 
Protecting your personal information
The Department of Housing protects your personal information from being accessed, used or released in an unauthorised manner.
The Department of Housing protects information entered into the computer that identifies you personally and, in a controlled and inaccessible manner, prevents it from unauthorised use or release.
lf personal information (such as your credit card number) is shared with other websites, it is protected by the use of an information converter program such as the protocol of the Secure Socket Layer (SSL).
Amendments in this Statement
The Department of Housing will occasionally add more information to this Privacy Statement so as to include the feedback from companies and customers.
The Department of Housing encourages you to review this Statement in a timely fashion so that you may familiarise yourself with the measures that have been taken by the Department of Housing to protect your information.
Contact details
The Department of Housing welcomes your feedback on this Statement.
If you believe that the Department of Housing did not follow the Statement, please contact the Department of Housing at: webmaster@kznhousing.gov.za.
We will make every possible effort to sort out the problem quickly.
<Doc05>
Speech made by the Premier Ebrahim Rasool at the function to celebrate the success of the matriculants
Today we are gathered here to congratulate the matriculants who passed with flying colours.
We are saying to them: You worked hard! We are proud of you, the province and the nation are proud of you, your parents are proud of you, but what is more important is that you should be proud of yourselves. 
What makes us proud at this moment is the knowledge that this moment of success is a result of commitment and long-time sacrifice; this is clarified at a time which can best be described as complex.
Matric is complex.
In the past ten years it has been necessary to separate the whole education system from its apartheid background.
We have unravelled the major part of success as the greater inclusion that has taken place, a syllabus and end-of-year exams, the greater numbers of those who pass matric, and an awareness that education goes beyond personal needs – since the economy is dependent on the skills that are provided by the education system.
Matric is really complex.
The leaders who are gathered here today at Leuwenhof are no doubt high calibre leaders; they are the one who have succeeded and are suitable, they are the ones who should be respected in this province.
However, we also recall the almost 71% of people who did not complete higher education in the past 20 years, the about half of 80 000 children entered Grade 1 with you in the past 12 years but who did not write exams in 2004 because they dropped out of school; many of those who received matric certificates but were unable to use them or access higher education because of their grades or choices.
Matric continues to be more complex because you are our shop windows at school.
The nation sees its future through your achievements.
They shower you with good will for your wellbeing.
They placed their trust in the future by investing money in the education project, which includes this celebratory moment.
It is true that the larger portion of the national and provincial budget goes to education.
This year only, there was need for us to take money from other provincial services and give it to education so as to retain 2000 employed teachers.
We have intensified investment in poverty-stricken schools so that the increase in numbers may result in a positive growth in education through the strong belief in the future of all schools in townships.
What is more important, Premier Dugmore and General Superintendent Swartz, is that we have an opportunity to establish human relations strategies in an effort to show that this investment is necessary. 
We need to produce matriculants who have firm values, who achieve admirable results, who are trustworthy in their lives and are of benefit to others.
These are the reasons why we are gathered here today to celebrate.
Hold fast to these hopes as we build a home for everyone.
We uphold your success because you sacrificed yourselves and worked hard, your parents sacrificed by keeping you in school and your principal sacrificed and invested in your future.
Many doubt the value of celebrating matric achievements, given their complexity and the fact that they may still reflect the residue of an apartheid system.
Only you can overcome this by committing to building a home for everyone, that is, a non-discriminatory environment where everyone is equal.
This must be reflected in everything you say from now onwards.
Up to now you have chosen to work very hard.
The matric certificate helps you to make decisions, as well as choose who you want to become and what kind of lives you want to lead.
We congratulate you and wish you the best.
<Doc06>
The goal of managing the Government Communication Project of 2010 is to:
promote the success of the aims of the communication strategies for the first world soccer cup called the African FIFA World Cup.
to use this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to show and further build unity and pride among the people of South Africa
to inspire the youth
to market this country to the world
to establish a communication environment that will help to use this opportunity to speed up development and increase opportunities
to unite Africa
We will succeed in this by doing the following:
providing leaders and integrating government communication concerning the 2010 World Cup
building an ethos of unity and partnership in the entire country among public and private communicators from all sectors, and establishing alliances with communicators in the continent of Africa and the diaspora, so that through a collective effort this country and the African continent can use this boundless communication opportunity 
leading strategic government communication projects that are related to the 2010 Soccer World Cup
<Doc07>
National Road Traffic Regulations were amended so as to improve road safety.
POLOKWANE: the National Traffic Regulations were amended.
This amendment is referred to as Amendment 27 and it came into effect at the time of publication.
The Department of Transportation and Roads informs the drivers of these changes:
All vehicles that were registered after 1 August 2010 must have number plates that are fitted with pop rivets or screws.
If these cannot be fastened to the car, they must be fitted to a bracket that is aligned to SAN 973.
This amendment will reduce the number of road offences and crimes by drivers who remove their car number plates easily so that they cannot be caught.
It will not be easy to remove the number plates and then put them back after committing a crime since it will be necessary to pay more costs.
Number plates are made of aluminium which makes it difficult for them to burn beyond recognition at accident scenes.
From 1 February 2011, people who receive drivers’ licences for the codes C, C1, EC or EC1 will no longer be allowed to drive cars that require code B or code EB (under the old regulations a person with a code 10, 11, 13 and 14 licence were not authorised to drive a car that required a code 08 licence).
This applies to holders of new licences.
A large number of learner drivers who are in the process of applying for licences to drive small cars, apply for licences for big cars so as to avoid being tested for parallel parking for example.
When they get their licences to drive big cars, they then drive small cars that they are not used to driving and end up being involved in accidents.
It is expected that all those who received licences for driving big cars should have professional driving permits, but statistics show a different story.
This evidence supports the finding that the applicants simply wanted licences to drive small cars and not big cars.
Directional stability control devices were introduced in relation to mini and midi buses as part of the process of obtaining certificates which form part of roadworthy tests.
This applies to all mini and midi buses only; not to recently manufactured new cars.
The person who registered the car or the person representing them must submit a completed DSCD form to the testing station.
A directional stability control device is a device that prevents the tyre from coming off the rim if it bursts while the car is moving. 
The amendment of Regulation 332 has been published and contains lists of breathalyser testers that can be used to collect breath samples as evidence; the certificate provided by the maker can be used as evidence in related offences.
The aim of this amendment is to correct the issue that was raised in relation to the legal acceptance of the breathalyser in line with section 65(7) of the National Road Traffic Act of 1996, whether these conform to SABS 1973 and whether they can be used to measure levels of alcohol in the breath.
The following are recommended items: 
“This is very vital during the end-of-year holiday season since it adds to our efforts to fight against drunken driving on our roads” says the MEC of Roads and Transport, Pinky Kekana.
<Doc08>
Antenatal health services (before delivery)
Pregnant women and girls are referred to prenatal services or maternity obstetric units (MOUs) that are located in towns and outpatient clinics or clinics that are independent of hospitals in the rural areas.
MOUs are delivery units that are administered by midwives in communities and provide health care support for patients.
It is recommended that pregnant women should book their first visit at the hospital before the end of 20 weeks or immediately afterwards.
The mother receives her first thorough check-up and counselling when she visits for the first time; this is related to prenatal care and is also known as a booked visit.
The pregnancy is monitored through the usual pregnancy visits that follow.
The mother’s health is also monitored.
You will be weighed, your blood pressure will be measured and urine tests will be done.
If there are no problems, the mother should make a follow-up visit after 20 weeks so that she may receive the results of the tests that were done during the booked visit.
Thereafter, she should visit the clinic again every 6 weeks up to 28 weeks, then at 34 weeks and afterwards as recommended by the hospital/MOU staff (visits may differ from one place to another).
Pregnant women are screened for possible complications that may put their lives and their unborn babies’ lives at risk.
Pregnant teenage girls and women who are older than 35 years are viewed as high-risk cases.
This means the chances of developing complications during pregnancy and delivery are higher.
All pregnant women may be considered high risk if they have high blood pressure, a history of genetic problems and multiple pregnancies, and if they had surgery in the past such as a caesarean section.
Women who are high risk are referred up the line to specialised outpatient hospitals; that is tertiary hospitals, where other tests and screenings will be done.
Mothers who are at high risk are advised to visit the antenatal care hospitals that are provided for outpatients as required.
If it is your first visit to the health care facility, you will be asked to complete a form and a file will be opened.
Bring your ID, any other medication you are taking and your clinic or hospital card if you have registered at this facility before.
Low-risk pregnancies are managed at MOUs (delivery units that are administered by midwives in communities to provide patient health care support) in townships, outpatient clinics and independent clinics in rural areas.
High-risk pregnancies are managed at outpatient hospitals in rural areas and provincial hospitals or specialised tertiary hospitals .
<Doc09>
Integrated Nutrition Programme
The Integrated Nutrition Programme (INP) is meant to improve the food situation for all people in the Western Cape province.
This programme has many components.
What does malnutrition mean?
Malnutrition is a big problem in South Africa and it is one of the causes of illnesses and death in children.
Approximately 30% of children face malnutrition as a result of a lack of proper care in the early years of life.
Inadequate food and mental and social pressure/problems are the major causes of malnutrition.
Poverty and lack of food are central issues that result in malnutrition.
INP is making an effort to monitor this silent killer through multiple approaches.
Supplementary foods for children
Children who are under care programmes in their communities, who are checked and identified as suffering from malnutrition (this includes children and adults who are HIV positive and have TB) will be given food supplements which include nutrition-laden mealie meal and energy drinks.
Supplement foods are given to those customers who have been identified according to set criteria.
Health experts provide advice and research-based information on nutritional foods and pro-health cooking methods.
Experts on the food programme provide the community with selected services.
Breastfeeding
To help fight malnutrition among children in the early years of life, health experts encourage women to breastfeed their children exclusively until six months and thereafter to continue breastfeeding even if solid foods are introduced until the children are 2 years of age.
Other feeding methods are discussed with HIV-positive women.
The Vredendal Hospital and Groote Schuur Maternity Hospital are baby friendly hospitals in this province in line with the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative.
Monitoring growth
All children are weighed on selected occasions as part of the programme to monitor growth; this is an indicator of whether the baby is growing or not.
The weight in recorded in a book titled Road to Health Card. 
The causes of weight loss are checked, such as transmittable diseases, lack of food at home and child neglect.
Transmittable diseases are the leading causes of malnutrition among children and these diseases are treated at the health care support levels.
Diarrhoea is closely related to unclean conditions (transportation of sanitation and provision of water) and to situations where the child is not properly cared for; this puts the child at risk of excessive, long-lasting diarrhoea. 
Reducing poverty levels
Poverty-stricken families are identified and then referred to government programmes that help to reduce poverty.
The provision of adequate and nutritious food is the focal point of some parts of the health sector as well as other sectors which provide support and interventions.
Vitamin supplements
Managing deficiencies in micro-nutrients is an important part of our services.
These micronutrients are natural, such as vitamins and minerals, are found in small quantities in foods and are important in maintaining good health.
INP provides Vitamin A supplements to those children who are identified as deficient.
Children with a Vitamin A deficiency lose weight, have compromised growth and are often at risk of contracting diseases and dying as a result of them.
Vitamin A deficiency affects the eyes and is one of the things that cause blindness in children.
Babies who are born with light diarrhoea are given Vitamin A caps that boost the immune system and promote the child’s growth.
Babies between 6 months and 11 months are given one dose of Vitamin A (100 000 IU) in order to prevent serious illnesses.
Children between 12 months and five years are given one dose of 200 000 IU at 12 months and a single dose of 200 000 IU every six months until they are 5 years old.
Extra doses of Vitamin A tablets are given to children who suffer from high levels of malnutrition, or who have transmittable diseases also such as TB, diarrhoea, measles and HIV.
Deworming
Weight loss in children may be a result of worms and this can be treated by the clinic with deworming drugs.
Food advice on specific conditions
Food-based education, information and advice are given at all care stages to people who suffer from stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes, HIV/AIDS and TB.
Food programmes for primary schools
The Primary School Food Programme is available in schools identified with children from poor households.
These programmes are administered in collaboration with the Department of Education.
The provincial government aims to reach 125 000 children in 847 primary schools in this province by 2004 through its food programme for schools kids.
Food at the centres
INP is participating in caring for customers in centres through food services in a bid to identify nutritional foods.
Instructions:
Those who are visiting a hospital, tertiary hospital or high care for the first time will be asked to complete a form and then a file will be opened.
Please bring your ID.
You must have your referral letter with you when visiting the hospital.
The hospital will ask for your payslip/income tax (IRP5).
If you are registered with the hospital, carry your card with you.
<Doc10>
Speech delivered by the Deputy Minister of Public Works, Mr Ntopile Kganyago, a Member of Parliament, on the opening day of the City of Tshwane Centre Programme at the Southern African Reserve Bank Building in Tshwane
And other senior government officials
Ladies and gentleman of the press
Distinguished guests
The decision that was taken by Cabinet in 1997 to encourage government departments to make the City Centre of Tshwane their permanent home shows signs that it was a great vision; then and now.
The outcome is a well-planned programme for renovating our cities and returning them to their former glory and the recommendation by government of reviving cities and other development programmes that are meant to develop the culture and the management of the city in line with human rights.
Today, as we are the first to undertake this adventure to fulfil this vision, we are also celebrating our journey so far.
In-depth discussions are often similarly reflected by intense debates concerning the needs of the environment and available options in government departments; this did not deter us from our initial aims, which were to develop the work environment in government departments in the City of Tshwane.
At the same time, we have to participate in the renovation of the city centre and in its restoration to its earlier glory.
Other objectives that are no less important include a campaign to attract investments by the private sector, building the image of Tshwane as an important capital city in Africa and promoting the economic development of black people.
The state is the largest owner of land and properties and is one of the leading investors in the economies of rural governments, as well as in major municipalities, in particular Johannesburg and Tshwane in Gauteng.
Departments require buildings that can be used as working spaces and offices so as to meet their commitment to providing services to the public so as to fulfil their mandate.
It is well known that most government buildings are in a good to fair condition rather than being in the best possible condition.
The renewal, promotion and repairs will take a large portion of expenditure and it will form part of the City of Tshwane BEE Project.
In addition, the government through the Department of Public Works spends more than 2 billion rand (R2 billion) nationally in paying for leases and other building management related costs such as municipality rates and services, benefitting the private sector and rural governments.
On many occasions, it is the interested parties that are expected to drive this project of renewing the City of Tshwane, possibly with the participation of the Provincial Government of Gauteng through collaboration in major projects with the support of the Gauteng Economic Development Agency (GEDA).
Regarding the City Centre of Tshwane Project, from henceforth it will be known as “Re Kgabisa Tshwane” with a subtitle “A Better Place to Work”; it will focus mainly on people (government employees and the public), as in the spaces where they congregate when bringing or delivering services and when receiving important services from the government.
At the time when President Thabo Mbeki announced the Action Plan in 2004, he advised the national departments of Public Works and of Public Service and Administration to work in collaboration to push forward this project so as to develop the work spaces of government departments and government staff.
Public physical infrastructure is the engine of service delivery and the public officials are the fuel driving the engine and making it function faster, more efficiently and more functionally.
During the stage of determining needs related to this project, many government employees questioned this emphasis on the importance of having very beautiful work spaces that are beneficial to their fulfilling their duties; this also includes internal and external spaces, hence there was a need to collaborate with Tshwane Municipality, since it is its job to manage most parts of the city, such as transportation, cleanliness, security, safety and the overall appearance of the city.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the management and leadership of Tshwane on their vision to support this project and for aligning it with the Integrated Development Plans.
A Memorandum of Agreement (MOU), that is, an agreement with the Department of Public Works and the City of Tshwane, will enter into force soon; today will be a confirmation that they agree on foundational issues that will start the process.
It is a declaration of intent to collaborate on programmes and projects that are mutually beneficial to both parties.
Our message to you is “the work has begun” and over the next 10 years we will witness the investment of more than eight billion rand (R8 billion) by the government nationwide and the private sector through financial contributions, improving leases and collaboration between government and the private sector.
With regard to the Management Programme, a Management Committee has been initiated by the Department of Public Service and Administration, the Department of Public Works, the National Treasury and the Municipality of capital City of Tshwane.
Among other things, this committee will support this programme, manage and monitor its functions, design a sponsorship plan and also see to it that there is a collaborative effort in implementing it.
The Department has selected Mr Dumisani Dlamini as the Deputy Director General who will manage this entire project.
Thank you
<Doc11>
Speaker of the House, Honourable Minister, Cabinet colleagues, members of the House, respected guests, officials of the department of housing, members of the press and the public, welcome.
Ladies and gentleman these words apply to the political situation in South Africa, especially in the Western Cape.
No matter how dedicated some people may be in working towards the development of this country, the aim of other people is to undermine the good work that has been done by this caring government in the short period it has been in power.
Ladies and gentleman, many people debate what housing actually means; please allow me to give you a different explanation.
To me, housing is not only about shelter.
It is about the people who dedicate themselves to improving their space and creating a better future for themselves.
It is about establishing successful communities and viable living environments.
It is about success that is founded on unity, collaboration with the private sector, the governmental sector and non-governmental organisations, but what is more important are the communities.
To me, housing can be explained as a process that includes planning together with the people, instead of planning for them.
Housing in South Africa is not about the products, but is a process that is steeped in democratic guidelines for the people of the country who fought hard for them.
It is a process that involves listening to people, that allows people to enjoy their democratic rights in choosing the houses and environments in which they want their houses to be located.
Thus, there is nothing that is as dehumanising and undemocratic as a system that infringes on people’s right of choice.
In contrast to the apartheid system, as a social activist, people are the focal point of my vision and my plans to bring them houses.
Ladies and gentleman, as the Provincial Minister of Housing, it is my pleasure to present my second budget speech this evening.
I am proud to present this budget speech on the eve of the 10th anniversary of the democratic government.
There is tangible evidence that the ANC government has succeeded in achieving many things in less than 10 years of democratic rule, which has not happened in any country worldwide.
We have done well.
Regarding the tangible results of the 1.4 billion housing opportunities that were achieved by the government, I am proud to announce that in the past 9 years we have built 167 000 units, which is about 11% of the national cake.
According to me, this is commendable work at whatever level.
I would also like to state that the past year has been characterised by challenges that have had a negative impact on the delivery of houses nationwide and in this province.
These challenges emanated from the establishment of new policy guidelines, which stipulated that every person who receives a house must pay R2 479, as well as the implementation of the National Home Builders Registration Council Warranty Scheme for government housing subsidy.
These measures are not there to delay the delivery of housing but to ensure that people receive cost-effective and quality housing.
It is a process for implementing these guidelines and is the cause of delays in the delivery of houses.
What worsened the situation was that my department worked without a Director General for nine months.
This affected the process greatly.
I have appointed Mr Seth Maqethula, who was born and raised here in Cape Town and has worked for the national and local governments; I would like to congratulate and welcome him, although l have done this many times before.
Outside these challenges and barriers, I am proud to announce to our people that my department has utilised R348 billion, which is about 92% of the housing subsidy in the Western Cape.
Some provinces have failed to use even up to 52% of their subsidy.
This means that approximately 25 000 subsidies were approved.
The number of poor families who will be given an opportunity to enjoy the fruits of the new democratic government is growing.
Ladies and gentleman, this reflects massive growth by 3000 units if we compare it with the previous year.
Regarding this, I would like to thank the municipality of this province for the significant role they played.
Without their commitment and commendable work, we would not have been able to use the money.
I would also like to congratulate the City of Cape Town for utilising nearly 70% of our budget.
I cannot forget to thank my officials for their sacrifice and participating in this vision of a nation with houses.
Ladies and gentleman, I will not lie to myself by presenting a positive picture on the process of delivering houses.
There are gaps in our delivery process.
Up to now, we still need to improve on the following pressing issues:
Most of our houses do not comply with the changes in policy – to move from quantity to quality houses.
We still need to change the process of housing delivery from the provision of homes to establishing a process for settling people in a decent manner. 
We need to change the participation process for housing recipients so that they are able to contribute instead of doing nothing.
We need to change the way our people think so that they may see subsidy houses as valuable properties, instead of viewing them as products.
<Doc12>
SECTOR COMMUNITY POLICING PROGRAMME
Both mother and child benefited greatly when James Busakwe, who was 16 days old, was reunited with his biological mother on 7 April 2006.
This incident began when the mother of baby James arrived at the Klerksdorp hospital on 6 April to visit her son; it was at that moment that she realised that her child had been given to another woman who had claimed to be the birth mother the day before.
After discovering this, the nurses notified the Kekana Police Station since the woman who took James had provided an address in Kekana.
The address was searched but nothing was found.
No one who fitted that name and description was known at this address.
On the night of 6 April, the CPF held a meeting.
The chairing commissioner in this station informed the meeting attendants about the kidnapped child, and asked everyone to keep their ears open.
That night at 23:00, a member of the public phoned the police and gave them information on a woman in their section who had not been seen to be pregnant but now had a boy child.
The police followed this lead and found the woman.
The hospital staff were called in and in no time they identified the baby as the one who was kidnapped, and also the woman who had kidnapped the child.
Various items were found in the accused’s house as evidence, including a plastic hospital bangle.
The woman was arrested and the unharmed child was taken to hospital, where he was reunited with the real mother the next day.
The public action that resulted in the recovery of this child must be applauded since it showcased the importance of the Sector Community Policing programme.
The importance of the Sector Community Policing programme must not be undermined but utilised and implemented correctly.
Keep up the good work, Kekana CPF!
Dear Madam
I think it was pure luck that l was passing by your police station at Mondeor and came across your Police Journal.
I think it is published once a month and it was good to read it.
My wife and I recently established a new business and we would like to invite you all, or some of your staff if they are patrolling near our place, to come in and have a cup of coffee or tea free of charge and I hope we will also be able to give them a biscuit or two.
I am sure you understand that starting a new business is not easy and it takes hard work and a lot of money.
Although that is the case, we believe that the police and all other legal departments are important to all citizens of South Africa.
This is small gesture that we would love to extend to you to show our appreciation for your dedication to making sure that we, the community members, are safe and continue to enjoy our daily lives.
We are looking forward to receiving your response, or better yet, to seeing some of your staff in uniform visiting our store so that we may get to know each other.
We also extend our appreciation to all workers in legal departments in South Africa for your dedication and sacrifice with the aim of keeping South Africa safe.
Short letters in point form may be sent to the Editor via fax or e-mail.
The right to edit or shorten the letters is retained.
<Doc13>
A CALL TO ACTION
On 14 June 2007, one of the articles in the Police Online Journal (www.sapsjournalon-line.gov.za) described how two policemen in the Vehicle Identification Unit in Welkom were arrested in connection with corruption and fraud.
It is reported that these two, a superintendent and an inspector, sold cars that were recovered by the police for their own private gain.
The two accused appeared before the courts on 12 June but their case was postponed to 21 August 2007.
On the following day, 15 June 2007, a headline on News24 read: “Two police arrested for armed robbery”.
This referred to a trainee officer and an inspector who are reported to have robbed a clothing shop at Marble Hall, and to have stolen money, trousers and shirts.
Corruption among police must come to an end.
At this time most of us are honest citizens, we work hard; a handful of police show lack of self-respect, others show lack of respect for their uniform or the Police Code of Conduct.
The time has come to eradicate this poison among the police.
Now you can help do away with corrupt policemen by exposing them on a new line for reporting crime.
Anonymously
If you suspect that one of your colleagues is doing something suspicious, or if there is someone you know, it could be a policeman, a member of your family, a colleague, a neighbour or a stranger, who is involved in or who plans to become involved in criminal acts, you can send an SMS to: 32211.
This is a new number, which was recently presented by Primedia in Sandton, you can use to report crimes nationwide.
You can send an SMS to 32211 (R1 per sms) or visit www.crime-line.co.za.
People trained to collect data are waiting to pass on the information to the police, who will then take immediate action.
What is important is that you will remain anonymous.
Now you have the power to fight against crime without placing yourself in danger.
Primedia promises not to get in touch with you.
Yusuf Abramjee, the Coordinator of the Crime Fighting Project from Primedia, said: “We do not need your name or address except if you are the one who wants to give it to us, there is no need for you to make statements or to appear in court.”
“What we need is information related to crime only so that the police may take action.”
This new campaign against crime nationwide, which cost thousands and thousands of rand, was presented by Primedia in Sandton on 7 June 2007.
It is founded on the International Crime Elimination Programme which fights crime.
The Crime Elimination Programme was initiated in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in September 1976.
It is a collaboration between the public, media platforms and legal organisations and was established with the aim to fight crime and keep people safe.
Today there are 1200 crime fighting programmes located in 20 countries the world over that use the information that is provided by the public with the purpose of helping bring down crime.
According to the Primedia CEO, Mr William Kirsh, these programmes have resulted in the arrest of 600 000 people!
What each and every policeman must know about this campaign against crime is that it is fully supported by the Premier of Safety and Security, Mr Charles Nqakula, and the National Police Commissioner, Commissioner Jackie Selebi.
Commissioner Selebi promised that “as an organisation, we will do everything in our power to ensure that this project is a success”.
The question is what will you do about this?
There is a need for complete support for everyone, not to only take immediate action when information is received from hot spot crime areas, but to also market this programme everywhere it can be marketed.
Inform people, CPFs, your families and friends about this programme.
Make sure that they understand that in this campaign you will not be contacted; you will remain anonymous no matter what happens.
Please remember that this is not an emergency number.
People should report emergency situations to 10111 or at the nearest police station.
Through this campaign, which fights against crime, the news people have extended the police a hand.
They want to help us make South Africa a safe place for us all.
At the time that this phone programme for fighting against crime was presented, John Robbie, who is a morning presenter on Talk Radio 702, donated 65 ID Tool machines to the police.
Mr Robbie recently invited listeners on air to donate money to buy these ID Tools.
The distributors of this Face Technology also contributed by lowering the price of these machines so that the companies who donated money for one machine were able to buy two.
Primedia and John Robbie are not the only ones who are helping to fight against crime.
Read any paper in the Police Journal or on the Police Online Journal and you will see that crimes are solved with the help of the public.
Through the success of this campaign against crime, criminals, including the few corrupt elements in the service, will now know one thing clearly  ... their days are numbered.
<Doc14>
The accreditation of the ETQA Service provider.
South African Government Services
Applying to the ETQA for accreditation as a service provider in education and training
Description
The regulations that apply to the Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA), which falls under the authority of the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), require all education providers to apply for accreditation with the ETQA.
In order to be accredited, education providers have to be registered in terms of the applicable regulations. 
Regulations on Higher Education and Further Education require that all education and training providers that provide complete qualifications should register with the Department of Education.
An education and training provider should provide unit standards and/or the relevant qualifications that are the focal point of the Education and Training Quality Assurance (ETQA) and the Skills Education Training Authority (SETA) or a professional organisation.
Accreditation requirements:
* Accreditation requirements are contained in the document s titled “Terms and Guidelines for Providers” which can be accessed on the SAQA website.
* The programmes (and/or assessments) that are provided by the education and training providers result in unit standards and/or qualifications that are registered with the National Qualification Framework (NQF).
* The education programme (design, content and curiculum) is aligned with standard units and/or qualifications.
* Relevant trained staff are available (facillitators and asessors).
* Learners have access to adequate student support services.
* The assessments and instruments that are used to measure the requirements of unit standards and/or qualifications are legal and reliable, and they are used to improve the education standards.
Steps to be followed
* Send a relevant letter to the ETQA explaining that you want to be accredited as an education and training provider.
* Send a self-evaluation and application form to the ETQA.
* If your application is rejected and you think the process was unfair, you have the right to ask for the decision to be reviewed.
* A list of ETQAs and their contact details can be accessed on the SAQA website.
The process can take up to six months.
This service is free.
There are forms that you must complete.
Application forms for accreditation as an education and training provider and other accompanying documents can be accessed at the relevant ETQA.
Contact details – Please select one of these:
